TOURIST GUIDE ROME ROME Rome is known as the "Eternal City" because time seems to have stood still here centuries ago. Its monuments and the remains of imposing buildings make a walk through its streets a journey back in time to the capital's heyday. Over the course of its history, which spans three millennia, it was one of the first great metropolises of humanity. It was the heart of one of the most important ancient civilizations, influencing society, culture, language, literature, art, architecture, philosophy, religion, law and the way of dressing in the following centuries. It was the capital of the Roman Empire, which extended its domains over the entire Mediterranean basin and a large part of Europe, and of the Papal State, under the temporal power of the Popes. It is the city with the highest concentration of historical and architectural assets in the world. Its historic centre, delimited by the perimeter marked by the Aurelian Walls, a superposition of traces from three millennia, is the expression of the historical, artistic and cultural heritage of the Western European world. In 1980, together with the extraterritorial properties of the Holy See in the city and the Basilica of Saint Paul Outside the Walls, it was included on the UNESCO World Heritage List. Rome, the geographical heart of the Catholic Religion, is the only city in the world that has a foreign state within it, the enclave of Vatican City: for this reason it has also been known as the capital of two States. Why travel to Rome? With a long and interesting history behind it, Rome is a city that attracts visitors from all over the world thanks to its impressive monuments and archaeological remains from Antiquity. There are countless reasons to visit Rome, fall in love with the city and want to return. The gastronomy and its lively atmosphere are some of them. Walking through Rome is not just about exploring an ancient city full of archaeological remains; Rome is the memory of the Gladiators fighting for life and death in the Colosseum, the chariots undertaking fast races in the Circus Maximus, and also the sight of the Roman sages strolling through the forum while discussing democracy. With more than 16 million tourists a year, Rome is the third European city that attracts the most visitors, behind London and Paris, with which it maintains an intense competition for the position of the most romantic city in Europe. Activities and Attractions The Colosseum The Colosseum is the main symbol of Rome, an imposing construction that, almost 2,000 years old, will take you back in time to discover what ancient Roman society was like. The construction of the Colosseum began in the year 72 under the regime of Vespasian and ended in the year 80 during the mandate of the emperor Titus. After the completion of construction, the Colosseum became the largest Roman amphitheatre, measuring 188 metres in length, 156 metres in width and 57 metres in height. The Colosseum in Antiquity During the Roman Empire and under the motto of "Pan et Circus" (bread and circuses), the Roman Colosseum (known then as the Flavian Amphitheatre) allowed more than 50,000 people to enjoy their favourite shows. Exotic animal shows, executions of prisoners, re-enactments of battles and gladiator fights accompanied the Roman people for years. The Colosseum remained in operation for more than 500 years. The last games in history were held in the 6th century, when it began to suffer from looting, earthquakes and even bombings during the Second World War. With a great instinct for survival, the Colosseum was used for decades as a warehouse, church, cemetery and even a castle for the nobility. Interesting facts - The original name “Flavian Amphitheatre” was replaced by the Colosseum because of the large statue of Nero that was located at the entrance of the Domus Aurea, "The Colossus of Nero". The Domus Aurea was a large palace built under the orders of Nero after the fire in Rome. - The Emperor Titus inaugurated the Colosseum with 100 days of games, which cost the lives of more than 2,000 gladiators. - Every Good Friday the Pope presides over the Stations of the Cross in the Colosseum. It has always been a place closely linked to the church and on this day the first Christians who died in the arena are remembered. - Currently it is visited by 6 million tourists a year. In 2007 it became one of the Seven Wonders of the Modern World. Useful information - Visiting hours: Every day from 8:30 until one hour before sunset. - Price: Combined ticket for the Colosseum, Forum and Palatine Hill: Adults: €12. EU citizens aged 18-24: €7.50. Children under 17 and EU citizens over 65: free entry. - Transport: Metro: Colosseo, line B Arch of Constantine The Arch of Constantine was erected in 315 to commemorate the victory of Constantine I the Great at the Battle of the Milvian Bridge. It is located between the Colosseum and the Palatine Hill. Built from pieces of earlier buildings, the Arch of Constantine is the most modern of the triumphal arches built in ancient Rome. It is 21 metres high and 25 metres wide and is made up of three arches. The reliefs on the monument, made from marble blocks, include statues taken from Trajan's Forum and some reliefs depicting Marcus Aurelius distributing bread to the poor, as well as a representation of Trajan after his victory over the Dacians. The inscription at the top, originally made in bronze letters, reads as follows: "To the Emperor Caesar Flavius Constantine, the greatest, pious and blessed Augustus: because he, inspired by divinity, and by the greatness of his mind, has freed the state from the tyrant and from all his followers at the same time, with his army and only by force of arms, the Senate and the People of Rome have dedicated this arch, decorated with triumphs." Trevi Fountain The Trevi Fountain is one of Rome's major tourist attractions and a must-see for visitors to the city. It is located in Piazza di Trevi, 150 metres from the Galleria Alberto Sordi and is the largest fountain in the city. The story goes that the Trevi Fountain was built by the architect Nicola Salvi in the 18th century at the request of Pope Clement XII, forming the end of the Aqua Virgo aqueduct, which supplied Rome with water. Its name comes from the fact that three streets or three roads meet there (Tre Vie). In its central part there is a representation of Neptune, the Roman god of the sea, on a chariot pulled by sea horses. According to a famous legend, the visitor who throws a coin into the fountain over his shoulder and with his back to the monument is guaranteed to return to the Italian capital. Approximately one million euros are extracted each year from the fountain, which since 2007 has been used for charitable purposes. The Roman Forum The area known as the Roman Forum is located a few metres from the Colosseum, and includes a large number of temples, villas, commemorative arches and pools, as well as buildings used for public events held in Rome. The Roman Forum is a huge rectangular square where you can see the ruins of some of the most important buildings of Ancient Rome. It was a kind of social centre of the ancient empire, where public events, parades after victories in battles, gladiator fights and even public executions took place. In its time of glory, this place was the central axis of Roman commerce, business, religion, justice and social life as a whole passed through there. Although it is not possible to access the interior of the forum building, do not miss this place, located in the centre of Rome, 500 metres from the Tiber River. Points of interest In addition to the large number of temples in the forum, it is worth paying special attention to the following points of interest: - Via Sacra: It was the main street of ancient Rome and connected the Piazza del Campidoglio with the Colosseum. - Arch of Titus: It is a triumphal arch that commemorates the victory of Rome over Jerusalem. It was built after the death of the Emperor Titus. - Arch of Severus Septimius: Arch erected in 203 AD to commemorate the third anniversary of Severus Septimius as emperor. - Temple of Antoninus and Faustina: Built in the 2nd century, the Temple of Antoninus and Faustina stands out for being the best-preserved temple in the Roman Forum. - Basilica of Maxentius and Constantine: Although it is largely in ruins, its size gives reason to think that it was one of the most important buildings in the Roman Forum. - The Curia: This building was where the Senate met to make administrative decisions and decisions about the Government of Rome. - Column of Phocas: Erected in 608 AD in honour of the Byzantine emperor, this column, over 13 metres high, is one of the few that have remained standing since it was erected. Useful information - Visiting hours: Every day from 8:30 a.m. until one hour before sunset. - Price: Combined ticket for the Colosseum, the Forum and the Palatine Hill: €12. EU citizens aged 18-24: €7.50. EU citizens under 17 and over 65: free entry. - Transport Metro: Colosseo, line B (blue). Trastevere Trastevere is one of the most pleasant neighbourhoods in the city. Its bohemian and peaceful atmosphere is capable of dazzling tourists while also attracting regular Roman citizens. Life in the neighbourhood is concentrated especially around Piazza di Santa Maria, where the ancient Basilica of Santa Maria in Trastevere is located. The large fountain in front of the temple serves as a meeting place, for resting, or for having an ice cream on hot days. A stroll through the narrow cobbled streets of Trastevere reveals hidden treasures such as modest medieval churches, small shops with unusual objects, or scenes of everyday life that seem to be taken from centuries past. Piazza Venezia Piazza Venezia is a large square located in the centre of Rome. Here you will find the Palazzo Venezia, the former seat of the Pope, a building that gave the square its name. The palace also served as the embassy in Rome of the former Republic of Venice. Its main attraction is a huge monument built in honour of Victor Emmanuel II, the Italian king who assumed power in the mid-19th century, after the unification of Italy. The place was also used by the fascist leader Benito Mussolini to give his speeches. Since 1921, the Victor Emmanuel Monument has housed the tomb of the unknown soldier, a place where the eternal flame shines and is always guarded by two soldiers. - Monument to Victor Emmanuel II This colossal monument, 135 metres wide and 70 metres high, is made up of dozens of majestic Corinthian columns and endless staircases, all made of white marble. A bronze equestrian sculpture of Victor Emmanuel presides over the complex, and two quadrigas guided by the goddess Victoria crown the 16-column portico. At its base is the Risorgimento Museum, dedicated to the unification of Italy, where weapons, flags and other objects related to this historic moment are on display. One of the main attractions of the Monument is the panoramic views from the terrace at the height of the quadrigas. The panoramic lifts are the only way to access the top of the monument, but the beautiful views make it worth the climb. The climb costs €7 for adults and €3.50 for minors under 18 and seniors over 65. Piazza di Spagna Spanish Steps (Piazza di Spagna) is the centre of Rome's cultural life and a meeting point for local citizens, both during the day and at night. It is an elegant and unmissable public space in the city of Rome. The square is surrounded by ochre-coloured buildings and flowering vegetation. In the central part of the square is the Barcaccia Fountain, a construction attributed to Bernini and his son, Gian Lorenzo. Around the square are shops of major brands such as Gucci, Valentino and Bulgari. Its main attraction is a monumental staircase with 135 steps, built to make it possible to climb the Pincio hill and the Church of Trinità dei Monti. Nearby is the Villa Borghese. Piazza del Popolo Piazza del Popolo, in English, People's Square, is the main square in the Historic Centre of Rome. It is crossed by some of the most important streets of the city such as Il Babuino, Via del Corso and Via Ripetta. At its entrance, on the Porta do Popolo, there is an inscription written in Latin that says "For a happy and auspicious entry", a phrase attributed to the famous Italian architect Gian Lorenzo Bernini. The square was completely remodelled in the 19th century in a neoclassical style and at its centre is an Egyptian obelisk brought from Heliopolis, in Lebanon. It is the second oldest piece of architecture in Rome, after the Lateran Obelisk in Piazza San Giovanni in Laterano. Piazza del Popolo is located in the centre of Rome, 750 metres from Villa Borghese. Piazza Navona Piazza Navona is a large public space known worldwide for its sculptures and the architecture of its most notable elements such as the Fountain of the Four Rivers, the Fountain of Neptune, the Fountain of the Moro and the Church of Sant'Agnese in Agone. The place was designed as a stadium and is estimated to have a capacity of around 20 thousand spectators. As you pass through Piazza Navona, you will come across local artists offering their services to visitors, who allow themselves to be photographed against the backdrop of ancient Roman landscapes. At Christmas, the square is lit up at night and filled with shops selling crafts, Christmas items and regional foods. Campo dei Fiori Campo de Fiori, or Campo di Fiori in Italian, is a square where a popular market is held from Monday to Saturday selling vegetables and fish. Until the 15th century, there was a flowery field here, which gave rise to the square's name. During the time of Pope Calixtus III, the area was paved so that important buildings could be built around the square, thus transforming Campo de Fiori into a place of passage for the most important celebrities of the time. Before having its current function, the square served as a horse market and for public executions. Campo de Fiori is located in the center of Rome, in the Parinoe district, 650 meters from the Pantheon in Rome and 200 meters from Piazza Navona. VATICAN CITY The Vatican (Vatican City) is a small independent nation within the heart of Rome, considered the smallest state in Europe, it is only 0.44 km2 and less than a thousand people live within its walls. The independence of the Holy See from Italy was declared on February 11, 1929 by the Lateran Pacts. The perimeter of the city is surrounded by high walls with only one public entrance in Piazza San Pietro. The Vatican is the headquarters of the Catholic Church, home of the Pope. Its main attractions are St. Peter's Basilica, the largest Christian temple in the world; the Vatican Museums, where the Vatican's greatest treasures are found; and the Sistine Chapel, famous for its fresco decoration, the work of the great Renaissance artist Michelangelo. An important fact to bear in mind before entering the Vatican is that you must wear clothing that covers below the knees. St. Peter's Square Designed and carried out by the architect Gian Lorenzo Bernini in the 17th century, with the support of Pope Alexander XII and the help of Michelangelo, St. Peter's Square is the main public space of Vatican City and its entrance. It is also the greatest symbol of Catholicism and a place where the faithful of that religion gather during major events. Its architecture is considered Bernini's greatest work. In front of its entrance is St. Peter's Basilica, and in the centre, a 40-metre-high obelisk from the 1st century AD brought from Ancient Egypt. The obelisk has been in the same place since 1585 when Pope Sixtus V ordered a piece of the cross of Jesus Christ to be placed at its base. In addition to the two fountains, one by Bernini (1675) and another by Maderno (1614). The most impressive thing about the square, apart from its size, are the 284 columns and 88 pillars that surround it in a four-row portico. On top of the columns are 140 statues of saints made in 1670 by Bernini's disciples. St. Peter's Basilica St. Peter's Basilica in Rome is undoubtedly the most important and famous of all churches in the world, and apart from its size, architecture and grandeur, it houses the Holy See inside. Its construction began in 1505 although it was completed in 1590, with the contribution of architectural and artistic geniuses such as Bramante, Michelangelo, Raphael and Bernini. The Basilica, which attracts millions of visitors every year, can accommodate up to 60 thousand people in the most important ceremonies led by the Pope. Inside it are kept the mortal remains of St. Peter, apostle of Jesus Christ and the first Pope in history, to whom the basilica owes its name. St. Peter's Basilica has a capacity for 20,000 people. It is 190 metres long and the central nave is 46 metres high. The dome, designed by Michelangelo, reaches a height of 136 metres. Visiting St. Peter's Basilica To visit St. Peter's Basilica, we must go to St. Peter's Square, where after passing through security checks we can visit the Basilica, go up to the dome (after going through the ticket office and by means of an elevator that precedes 320 steps) to see a wonderful view of Rome, and/or visit the tombs of the Popes, since most of them are buried here. In short, it is an essential visit and one that does not disappoint in any way. The basilica is truly spectacular in itself, and if that were not enough, the paintings and sculptures it houses (the most notable being Michelangelo's Pietà) would make an excellent collection for a museum. - Visiting hours From November to March: from 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. From April to October: from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. The dome opens one hour later and closes one hour earlier. - Price Admission to the basilica is free. There is a fee to climb the dome. - Transport: The Ottaviano metro, line A (red). The Vatican Museums The Vatican Museums is the name of the conglomerate of cultural institutions maintained by the Catholic Church. These museums house the Vatican's extensive collection, which began with the private collection of Pope Julius II in the 16th century. In total, there are 12 museums or galleries with large collections, which have been enlarged thanks to the contributions of private families and other popes. In addition to this, the complex includes the Sistine Chapel, the Vatican Library, and the Pineapple Courtyard. To visit the museums, it is necessary to observe the Vatican dress code, such as covering your knees, so it is not recommended to visit the place in short skirts or shorts. Visiting all the galleries is a complicated task, since it can take up to 4 hours to visit one of them. For this reason, it is recommended to choose only the museums or galleries that interest you the most. What museums are inside? - Pius-Clementine Museum: Created thanks to Popes Clement XIV and Pius VI, this museum houses the most important Greek works in the Vatican. - Pius V's Apartment: Work of Pope Pius V, it houses Flemish tapestries from the 15th and 16th centuries, a collection of medieval ceramics and another of miniature medieval mosaics. - Gallery of the Candelabra: Roman statues copied from Greek originals and enormous candelabras from the 2nd century AD decorate this elegant gallery. - Missionary Ethnological Museum: Contains works of art from all the papal missions around the world, including objects from Tibet, Indonesia, India, the Far East, Africa and America. - Gallery of Cartographic Maps: Made between 1580 and 1585, the beautiful frescoed maps on the walls of this gallery represent the Italian regions and the Church's possessions. - Historical Museum - Coach Pavilion: This section displays coaches, saddles, automobiles and even the first locomotive in Vatican City. - Gallery of Tapestries: Exhibition of Flemish tapestries created between 1523 and 1534. - Pious Christian Museum: The collection of Christian antiquities includes statues, sarcophagi and archaeological remains from the 6th century. - Pinacoteca: The eighteen rooms of the picture gallery display paintings from the Middle Ages to 1800. - Sobieski and Immaculate Rooms: Both rooms display paintings from the Italian "Ottocento". - Egyptian Museum: Among the pieces acquired by the popes are some impressive Egyptian sculptures as well as precious sarcophagi from the 3rd century BC. You can also see some black basalt statues (copies of Egyptian models) from Hadrian's Villa. - Etruscan Museum: This part of the museum houses ceramic, bronze and gold items belonging to the Etruscan civilisation. - Chiaramonti Museum: Created by Pius VII Chiaramonti, this gallery displays a thousand sculptures including portraits of emperors, images of the gods and some funerary monuments. - Museo Gregoriano Profano: Its rooms house Greek and Roman sculptures from the 1st to the 3rd century AD. - Borgia Apartment: The apartments that belonged to Pope Alexander VI Borgia today serve as exhibition rooms for the Collection of Modern Religious Art. - Raphael's Rooms: Raphael and his disciples decorated the apartments of Pope Julius II with unrivalled taste. - Sala della Biga: A monumental marble figure of a chariot pulled by two horses made in the 1st century AD fills the room, giving the room its name. Avoiding the queues The queue to enter the Vatican Museums is probably the longest in Rome. To avoid it, it is advisable not to go on the last Sunday of each month (the free day) or during Holy Week. It is also advisable to avoid weekends, especially in high season. Our experience tells us that the best time to go is around 1:00 p.m. on weekdays. Most people tend to gather early in the morning to avoid the queues and this is usually when there is the longest wait. The other option is to book a guided tour of the Vatican in English. This way you will see the most important things and save time. Useful information - Visiting hours Monday to Saturday from 9:00 to 18:00 (last admission 16:00). Last Sunday of the month from 9:00 to 14:00 (last admission 12:30), closed other Sundays. Closed 1 and 6 January, 11 February, 19 March, 12 and 13 April, 1 and 21 May, 11 and 29 June, 15 August, 8, 25 and 26 December. - Price Adults: €16. Children from 6 to 18 years old and students between 19 and 26 years old: €8. The last Sunday of every month is free. - Transport: Cipro - Musei Vaticani metro, line A (orange). Sistine Chapel The building was built between 1473 and 1481 during the reign of Pope Sixtus IV, to whom it owes its current name. The architect in charge of the construction was Giovanni de Dolci, and it is the only work for which he is remembered. The Sistine Chapel is one of the main tourist attractions in the Vatican. The main motif is not exactly religious, but its frescoes by the most important Renaissance artists, such as Michelangelo, Raphael and Botticelli. Michelangelo was commissioned to create the 1,100 square metre dome at the request of Pope Julius II. The final result is a work visited by travellers from all over the world, and is considered the painter's greatest work. The ceiling of the Sistine Chapel All the frescoes on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel are the work of Michelangelo, who took four years to paint the vault, from 1508 to 1512. If anything stands out in the images on the ceiling, it is the nine stories of Genesis that occupy the central part; The scenes from Noah's Drunkenness to the separation of Light from Darkness are depicted. The Creation of Adam The Creation of Adam is undoubtedly the best-known image in the Sistine Chapel. It is located in the central part of the vault and represents the story of Genesis in which God gives life to Adam. The Last Judgement Above the main altar and with grandiose dimensions (13.7 by 12.2 metres) is Michelangelo's other masterpiece, The Last Judgement, a painting depicting the Apocalypse of St. John. Decorating the apse took Michelangelo five years of his life, from 1536 to 1541. It was commissioned by Pope Paul III to cover the murals that existed until then. Gastronomy in Rome Italian cuisine is one of the most well-known and appreciated in the world. Proof of this is that it is difficult to find someone who has not tried pizza, ravioli or lasagna. In addition to the different types of pasta and pizza, Rome has many other typical dishes, such as bruschetta (toasted bread, oil, garlic and salt), panini (typical sandwich), different types of meat and fish seasoned with spices (such as the famous Roman-style fish), carpaccio, cheeses (especially pecorino) and some cold cuts (bresaola, mortadella, prosciutto and saltimbocca). Typical dishes Although in Rome you will probably have no problem choosing between dishes on the menu, it is always a good idea to have a list of typical dishes and some ingredients on hand to consult in case of doubt. - Carpaccio: Thin slices of raw meat or fish seasoned with olive oil and lemon. - Caprese salad: Mozzarella cheese with tomato. - Frutti di mare: Seafood. - Bresaola: Cured beef. - Prosciutto: Italian cured ham. - Risotto: Creamy rice. - Gnocchi: Pasta made from potatoes. - Saltimbocca: Traditional dish made with beef (or pork), ham and sage. - Tiramisu: Dessert made with eggs, sugar, mascarpone cheese, biscuits, coffee and cocoa powder. - Zabaione: Dessert made with egg yolk, sugar and sweet wine. - Panna cotta: Dessert made with cream and sugar that is usually accompanied by jam. - Babà: A kind of sponge cake with liqueur. - Limoncello: A very typical liqueur obtained by macerating lemons in alcohol. - Sambuca: A very sweet liqueur with anise flavour. - Grappa: Brandy made from pomace. - Campari: A reddish aperitif with a refreshingly bitter taste. Prices Rome offers many different dining options depending on each person's budget. From highest to lowest price, the options are as follows: - Restaurants: All types of Italian food are served, as well as meat and fish dishes. - Trattorias: These could be defined as small family restaurants. In these places it is quite common to order a single dish accompanied by a drink. - Pizzerias: Cheap places that specialize in pizzas. If the weather is nice, a good option is to order it to take away and eat in a lively square. - Pizza places by weight: Although they could also be defined as pizzerias, these places offer different types of pizzas and it is possible to buy the slice you want. This is a good option for a quick lunch. In most of the restaurants in Rome it is quite common to share a table with other people. Hours Romans do not have meal times that are too different from those we are used to. Lunch is usually served between 1:00 p.m. and 3:00 p.m. and dinner times start early, around 8:00 p.m., and usually last until 11:00 p.m. Areas Although every corner of the city is full of restaurants and takeaways, some of the most notable areas are the Trastevere district, full of restaurants serving typical Italian food, or some of the liveliest squares in the city, such as Piazza Navona, Campo dei Fiori, or the Pantheon. All of these areas are full of terraces where you can enjoy typical Italian dishes in a very authentic atmosphere. Shopping in Rome In Rome you can buy whatever you want, from clothes from the most important brands to classic souvenirs from the city. Rome is home to shops of international brands such as Armani, Gucci, Prada, Louis Vuitton, among others. But there are also several independent designer stores, where you can find original clothes at cheaper prices. Near all the monuments there are shops selling miniature replicas of them and various related souvenirs. Also, on Sundays the famous street markets open, where you can find antiques, furniture and books. Shopping malls Unlike most European cities, you won't find any shopping malls in Rome. The closest thing is the Galleria Alberto Sordi, located on Via del Corso near Piazza Colonna. It is open every day from 10:00 to 22:00. Street markets Those who love street shopping will find a number of street markets in Rome: - Porta Portese Market: Open only on Sunday mornings and is located in the streets near Trastevere train station. It is a traditional street market. - Mercato dei Fiori: Open in the mornings and you can buy mainly flowers and vegetables. It is located in Campo dei Fiori and is a very colourful market. - Piazza Fontanella Borghese Market: Open every morning except Sundays and sells books and antiques. It is close to the Spanish Steps. - Via Sannio Market: 5 minutes from the Giovanni metro, you will find this market open on weekdays until lunchtime. It is focused on clothing. Nightlife in Rome Although Rome is famous for its culture and monuments, you can also enjoy an entertaining nightlife. Keep in mind that in Rome people tend to go out late, usually after dinner. There are several options, you can go to discos, pubs, jazz clubs and bars but if you want to save a little money on drinks we recommend that you drink them standing at the bar, since the cost at the tables increases considerably. How to get around Rome Walking is one of the best ways to get around Rome. Each street has its own magic and charm. But you can also use public transport, on the one hand there are taxis, but we do not recommend them, since Rome's taxi drivers have a reputation for wanting to rip off tourists and are also considered the most expensive in Europe. For those who do not want to walk a lot, you can take the famous buses that go around the city stopping at the most important monuments. The good thing about these buses is that the ticket lasts all day, so you can get off to enjoy a certain place more and then get on another bus without any problems. An alternative for the more daring is to rent a Vespa, but you have to keep in mind that traffic in Rome is quite risky, since traffic signs are not always respected. The city also has two metro lines that drop you off at several of the most popular attractions. Climate in Rome The climate in Rome is Mediterranean and mild, which makes any time a good time to visit the city. The coldest months are January and February, where temperatures are around 5ºC, while in summer (July and August) the days are warmer and more humid, with temperatures reaching 30ºC. Although any time is good to visit Rome, it is advisable to visit during spring and autumn, since there are fewer tourists and the temperature is more pleasant. Tips for Rome - To avoid long queues at the attractions, it is advisable to arrive early or buy your ticket in advance. You can also buy the Roma Pass, a tourist card that gives you discounted access to the main attractions and unlimited use of public transport for 3 days. It costs €34 and can be purchased at tourist information desks and at all participating museums and monuments. - Opening hours of attractions: Some of the main monuments, such as the Colosseum or the Roman Forum, open around 8.30 - 9.00am, and close early in the evening, especially in winter, as closing time is associated with sunset: in winter at 4.30pm and in summer at 7.15pm. Public museums, on the other hand, also open early (8.30 - 9.00) but stay open until 19.30 - 20.00, so they are a good option for the last hour of the day. The 4 major basilicas (St. Peter's, St. Mary's, Lateran and St. Paul's) open very early (7.00) and close in the mid-afternoon (between 18.00 and 19.00). They do not close at midday. - Dress code in sacred places: You have to be careful with what you wear in sacred places, especially in summer. In many places you are not allowed to enter unless you wear long trousers, covered shoulders and a skirt down to the knee. They are especially strict in St. Peter's in the Vatican and St. Mary Major. Touring Rome Below, we recommend several tours that you can take, depending on your stay in Rome, so that you do not miss out on visiting the most important ones. 1 day stay: Morning Afternoon Passing through The Vatican - Trevi Fountain - Colosseum - St. Peter's in the Vatican - Pantheon - Piazza del Campidoglio - Piazza Navona - Castel Sant'Angelo 2 day stays: Day Morning Afternoon Passing through Downtown Area The Vatican - Pantheon - Piazza di Spagna 1 - St. Peter's in the Vatican - Piazza Navona - Piazza Venezia - Castle Sant'Angelo - Campo dei Fiori - Zona del Popolo - Gesù The Forums From the Colosseum - Piazza del Campidoglio - Colosseum - Fontana di Trevi - Roman Forum - S. Pietro in Vincoli – - S. Mary of the Angels 2 - Palatine Moses - S. Maria della Vittoria - Imperial Forums and - S. Mary Maggiore - Quirinal Area Markets 3-day stays: Day Morning Afternoon Passing through Central Zone The Vatican - Pantheon - Piazza di Spagna 1 - St. Peter's Vatican - Piazza Navona - Piazza Venezia - Castel Sant'Angelo - Campo de' Fiori - Popolo area - Gesù The Forums From the Colosseum - Piazza del Campidoglio - Colosseum - Trevi Fountain - Roman Forum - S. Pietro in Vincoli – - S. Maria degli Angeli 2 - Palatino Moses - S. Maria della Vittoria - Imperial Forums and - S. Maria Maggiore - Quirinal Area Markets South Area Around the Tiber - San Clemente - Tiber Island - S. Giovanni in Laterano 3 - Jewish Quarter ‐ - Baths of Caracalla - The Palatine Hill - Trastevere 4-day stays: Day Morning Afternoon On the way Downtown The Vatican - Pantheon - Piazza di Spagna 1 - St. Peter's in the Vatican - Piazza Navona - Piazza Venezia - Castel Sant'Angelo - Campo de' Fiori - Popolo area - Gesù The Forums From the Colosseum - Piazza del Campidoglio - Colosseum - Trevi Fountain - Roman Forum - St. Peter in Chains - St. Mary of the Angels 2 - Palatine Hill Moses - St. Maria della Vittoria - Imperial Forums and - St. Maria Maggiore - Quirinal Area Markets Around the Tiber South Area - Tiber Island - St. Clement 3 - Jewish Quarter - St. John Lateran ‐ - The Palatine Hill - Baths of Caracalla - Trastevere Trastevere - Tiber Island - Villa Farnesina - Theatre of Marcellus 4 Vatican Museums - St. Mary in Trastevere - Portico of Octavia - St. Cecilia - Ghetto - The Gianicolo