BARCELONA TOURIST GUIDE BARCELONA Located on the shores of the Mediterranean, Barcelona is a cosmopolitan city with great cultural, commercial, financial and touristic importance. Barcelona is one of the most visited European cities, both by tourists eager to get to know the capital, and by those attending congresses, meetings and all kinds of exhibitions held in the city. Barcelona is the perfect mix of fun, relaxation and culture. With a series of historical monuments, works of art, spectacular landscapes and activities, it is a romantic, entertaining and pleasant city that delivers guaranteed satisfaction even for the most demanding tourists. Activities and Attractions Main neighborhoods and areas La Barceloneta La Barceloneta is one of the most popular and charismatic neighborhoods in Barcelona. It is a seaside neighborhood full of magic and history that is located in the Port Vell district. The district is triangular in shape and borders the Olympic Port, the Ronda Litoral and the sea, comprising the beaches of Barceloneta, Somorrostro, Sant Sebastià and Sant Miquel. Until the mid-18th century, La Barceloneta was a practically uninhabited area. In 1754, fishermen began to settle in this part of the city due to its proximity to the sea. Despite having acquired a more modern appearance, La Barceloneta still retains its special charm today. Its narrow streets and facades darkened by the salt of the sea have made this area one of the most appreciated in Barcelona, a place with a calm, seaside and family atmosphere that remains far removed from the big city. - What to see in La Barceloneta One of the main attractions of the district are its beaches, the largest, best known and busiest in the city. They have a great atmosphere and excellent services. The streets of La Barceloneta are very pleasant and peculiar; narrow streets full of old buildings, churches and some shops that have preserved their decoration from almost 200 years ago. The area of the neighbourhood closest to the sea has a more modern landscape, although the old traditions are still preserved and at dusk it is possible to see the arrival of the fishing boats that unload their catches to auction off the freshest fish. To discover the charm of the neighbourhood, there is nothing better than getting lost in its narrow streets without worrying about where you are going, stopping to taste the freshest fish in any of the restaurants in the area. In addition to its natural appeal, the neighbourhood has numerous places of interest, among which we could highlight the Museum of History of Catalonia or the Clock Tower, the oldest building in the area that was built in 1772 to function as a lighthouse for the port. On Barceloneta Beach it is possible to take the cable car to reach the Mirador de Miramar and enjoy the views of the port. Just a few steps from La Barceloneta, in the Port Vell area, you can do some shopping at the Maremagnum shopping centre, watch a film in the modern IMAX cinemas or immerse yourself in the marine world at the Aquarium. Barcelona Olympic Port Built for the 1992 Olympics, Barcelona's Olympic Port (Port Olímpic) is an attractive marina located opposite the Olympic Village, between the beaches of Somorrostro (formerly part of La Barceloneta) and Nova Icària. Barcelona's Olympic Port is one of the most renowned marinas on the Mediterranean coast and one of the city's main tourist and leisure centres. - What to do in the Olympic Port The port has a pleasant promenade that is ideal for enjoying both day and night. It is full of restaurants, terraces, leisure areas, pubs, discos and shopping spaces, as well as having several beaches nearby. One of the most representative symbols of the Olympic Port are the two enormous towers located next to the sea, the Hotel Arts and the Torre Mapfre. The Olympic Port of Barcelona also has the Marina Village shopping area, a modern shopping centre with dozens of top brand clothing stores and some restaurants. Montjüic Used since ancient times as a military surveillance post, Montjüic Mountain is the only major elevation in Barcelona apart from Tibidabo. The work carried out for the Universal Exhibition of 1929 and the 1992 Olympic Games have made Montjüic a very interesting area. - What to see in Montjüic Montjüic Mountain is an excellent viewing point for contemplating the city and is full of places of tourist interest, some of the most notable being the following: Magic Fountain of Montjüic: Located between the Plaza de España and the impressive building of the National Art Museum of Catalonia, the Magic Fountain of Montjüic is the scene of a light and water show that, after more than 80 years in operation, still amazes its visitors. Montjuic Castle: At the top of the mountain is an old military fortress with a long history linked to the city, which today serves as a viewing point from which you can get some great views of the city. You can go up on foot or by cable car. Spanish Village: Created for the 1929 International Exhibition, it accurately represents the most beautiful corners of some of the Spanish towns. Montjuic Olympic Ring: Built for the 1992 Olympic Games, the Lluís Companys Olympic Stadium, the Palau Sant Jordi, the Bernat Picornell Swimming Pools and the peculiar Calatrava Telecommunications Tower are part of the city's striking Olympic Ring. National Art Museum of Catalonia: Located in an impressive building, the museum covers all types of art and covers a broad historical period. It is worth a visit. Joan Miró Foundation: This reference space for Miró's work aims to promote knowledge and the dissemination of contemporary art. Botanical Garden: With over 2,000 species of plants, this garden located on the former municipal landfill is now surprisingly beautiful. Las Ramblas La Rambla, also known as Las Ramblas, is one of the main arteries of Barcelona and one of the best-known places in the city. It is a pleasant 1.3-kilometre walk that connects Plaza Catalunya with the city's old port. Las Ramblas is always lively, full of tourists and street artists who act as human statues. The promenade has many terraces and it is pleasant to sit and watch the people come and go. - Strolling along Las Ramblas Rambla de Canaletes: Located at the top of Las Ramblas, next to Plaza Catalunya, Rambla de Canaletes is a very busy and lively area. Rambla de los Estudios: Named after the former location of the Estudio General or University, it is also known as the Rambla de los pájaros (Birds' Rambla) because the old Bird Market was located nearby. Rambla de las Flores: The most colourful and fragrant part of Las Ramblas is full of flower and plant stalls capable of brightening up the darkest of days. The legendary Boquería Market is located in this area. Rambla de los Capuchinos: Also known as the Rambla del Centro, it has numerous places of interest in its vicinity, such as the Gran Teatro Liceo, the Palacio Güell, or the nearby Plaza Real. Rambla de Santa Mònica: Functioning as a lobby for the port, the Rambla de Santa Mónica is a lively area full of bars and restaurants. At the end of the avenue, just before reaching the sea, is the Mirador de Colón (Colón Viewpoint). Gothic Quarter Located in the Ciutat Vella district, in the heart of the city, the Gothic Quarter (Barri Gòtic) is the oldest and one of the most beautiful areas of Barcelona. The pleasant neighborhood is bordered by Las Ramblas, Via Laietana, Paseo de Colón and Plaza Catalunya. - Touring the Gothic Quarter Born on the remains of Roman Barcino, medieval Barcelona encouraged the construction of Gothic churches and palaces that led to the disappearance of most of the Romanesque remains. The narrow and labyrinthine medieval streets of the Gothic Quarter of Barcelona make up the ideal setting to enjoy the city center without rushing, delighting in the remains that are preserved from the glorious past of the city. The Gothic Quarter of Barcelona has numerous tourist attractions for all tastes, among which we could highlight the following: Cathedral of Santa Eulalia: Also known as La Seu, the Cathedral of Barcelona is a famous example of Catalan Gothic architecture dating back to the 14th century. Plaza Sant Jaume: The political centre of Barcelona, it is where the City Hall and the Palace of the Generalitat of Catalonia are located. Carrer del Bisbe: A pleasant pedestrian street that links the Plaza Sant Jaume with the Cathedral. Plaza Real: Located next to Las Ramblas, this surprising neoclassical square is one of the most pleasant and lively in the area. Plaza del Rey: Home to the Royal Palace since the beginning of the Middle Ages, it houses a group of medieval buildings that house part of the Museum of the History of the City. The museum includes interesting excavations that allow you to learn about the city from its Roman foundation in the 1st century BC to the Barcelona of the Middle Ages. Calle Portal de L'Angel: It forms one of the most pleasant and complete commercial arteries of the city. Plaza Nova: Located in the vicinity of the Cathedral, this welcoming square still preserves part of its two ancient Roman towers. Frederic Marès Museum: Located in part of the former Palace of the Counts of Barcelona, it is a unique space where the works of the collector Frederic Marès are exhibited. Jewish quarter: Although the neighbourhood known as El Call was abolished more than 600 years ago, it is still possible to find some remains of what was once the city's Jewish quarter. Squares and parks Plaza de Cataluña With a surface area of 30,000 square metres, Plaza de Cataluña (Plaça de Catalunya) is one of the largest squares in Spain and one of the most important places in Barcelona. The square is the meeting point between the old town and the Eixample. The always lively Plaza de Cataluña is the starting point for some of the city's main arteries, such as Las Ramblas, Paseo de Gracia, Rambla de Cataluña, Avenida de Portal del Ángel, Calle Pelayo or Ronda de Universidad and Ronda de Sant Pere. - What to see in Plaza de Cataluña? The square is surrounded by shopping centres, shops, hotels, banks, bars and restaurants, making it an important shopping and leisure centre as well as a regular meeting point for concerts, exhibitions and other celebrations. Plaça de Catalunya is a very lively place at any time of day, making it the ideal destination for doing some shopping or relaxing while watching the comings and goings of passers-by. The terrace of the El Corte Inglés café is the ideal place to contemplate Plaça de Catalunya from above. Plaça Sant Jaume The historical and administrative centre of the city since ancient times, Plaça de Sant Jaume is home to the two most important buildings of the Catalan administration: Barcelona City Hall and the Generalitat de Catalunya. Throughout its history, the square has been the venue for numerous historic events and throughout the year a multitude of events are held there including exhibitions, concerts and demonstrations, as well as celebrations of football victories. The area around the central Plaza de Sant Jaume is full of places of interest and pleasant little streets that meander through the city centre, including Carrer del Bisbe, which links the Plaza de Sant Jaume with the Barcelona Cathedral. Plaza de España Built for the 1929 International Exhibition, Barcelona's Plaza de España (Plaça d'Espanya) is one of the largest and most significant squares in the Catalan capital. The square is located at the foot of Montjuïc Mountain and has 34,000 square metres, making it one of the largest squares in Spain. - What to see in Plaza de España Las Arenas Shopping Centre: Built on an old bullring in the neo-Mudejar style, it offers excellent views of the square and its surroundings from the upper terrace. "Campaniles": One of the entrances to the square is flanked by two striking towers inspired by the bell tower of St Mark's in Venice. English: Source: In the centre of the square is a huge monumental fountain of classical inspiration that represents a poetic allegory of Spain. Magic Fountain of Montjuïc: Between the Plaza de España and the National Art Museum of Catalonia is a well-known fountain that performs a play of light and water, creating a real spectacle. Ciutadella Park Built on the grounds of the city's old fortress for the Universal Exhibition of 1888, the Ciutadella Park (Parc de la Ciutadella) was for many years the only public park in Barcelona. Covering more than 17 hectares that extend over the Ciutat Vella district, the park is one of the main lungs of the city and an oasis away from traffic and haste. After the War of the Spanish Succession, Philip V ordered the construction of Montjuïc Castle and a huge citadel, for which the houses in the area were demolished and more than 4,500 people were evicted. After the Revolution of 1868, the citadel was demolished and only the chapel, the Governor's Palace and the arsenal, which is now the seat of the Parliament of Catalonia, were preserved. The spectacular park was built for the Universal Exhibition of 1888, with the collaboration of the artist Antonio Gaudí. What makes the park special? Probably the most striking elements of the park are its surprising waterfall, made up of an enormous monumental complex, and the building of the Castle of the Three Dragons, which currently functions as the Zoology Museum. In addition to this, the park has extensive gardens, monuments, groves, a lake, a greenhouse and the Barcelona Zoo. Sagrada Familia The Sagrada Familia is the best-known and most characteristic monument in Barcelona. As the greatest exponent of modernist architecture created by Gaudí, thousands of tourists come every day to admire the curious and unfinished temple. Construction began in 1882 in a neo-Gothic style. A year later the project was put in the hands of Gaudí, who completely rethought it. Gaudí designed an exceptional and innovative temple that was to be made up of 18 towers, although in the end he only had time to create one of them before his death. Gaudí died in 1926, leaving the project that occupied the last years of his life unfinished, but thanks to the plans that are preserved, his dream is slowly becoming a reality thanks to the work of other artists and the money obtained from donations and visits. Although it is not yet finished, the Sagrada Familia is an exuberant temple full of religious symbolism. These are some of the most important points: - The towers: So far, 8 of the 18 towers designed by Gaudí have been erected. The architect decided that twelve of them would be dedicated to the Apostles, four to the Evangelists, one to Mary and one to Jesus. Each of them will be of different heights depending on the religious hierarchy they represent. It is possible to access the top of some of the towers to contemplate the city from above and see some details of the exterior of the temple at a short distance. - The facades: Nativity Facade: Dedicated to the birth of Christ, this is a profusely decorated façade full of life. Passion Facade: Somewhat more austere and simplified than the other façades, it aims to reflect the suffering of Jesus during the Crucifixion. Glory Facade: The main façade, much larger and more monumental than the rest, will represent death, the Last Judgement, Glory and hell. Aware that he would not have time to build it, Gaudí left the sketches made so that his successors could finish the work. - The interior: To design the interior, Gaudí was inspired by the shapes of nature, creating columns in the shape of tree trunks that turn the interior of the temple into an enormous stone forest. When will the construction of the temple be finished? It is a very common question about when the Sagrada Familia in Barcelona will be finished, and it is a very difficult question to answer. Since its beginnings in 1882, the basilica has been an expiatory temple, that is, built from donations. This is why the completion date of the Sagrada Familia could still be quite far away. Guided tours in Spanish To get to know the Sagrada Familia in depth, there is nothing better than booking our guided tour. For only €12 you will enjoy an hour and a half of a tour with an expert guide on Barcelona and the building. Useful information - Location: Calle Mallorca, 401. - Visiting hours: From October to March: from 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. From April to September: from 9:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. - Adult price: €13.50. (With audio guide €17). Children under 10 years old: free entry. Students and children under 18 years old: €11.50. (With audio guide 14€). Elevator towers: 3€. Sagrada Familia + Gaudí House Museum : 16.50€. - Transport Metro: Sagrada Familia, line 2. Bus: Temple Expiatori de La Sagrada Família, lines 19, 33, 34, 43, 44, 50 and 51. Barcelona Cathedral The Barcelona Cathedral, also known as La Seu or the Cathedral of the Holy Cross and Saint Eulalia, is a famous example of Catalan Gothic architecture dating back to the 14th century. Despite being in the shadow of the famous Sagrada Familia, the cathedral is an impressive Gothic temple that is capable of captivating its visitors. The site of the cathedral has been the location of various Christian temples since the 4th century AD. In 1058, a Romanesque church was consecrated on the site, and in 1298 construction began on the Gothic church, which was not completed until the beginning of the 20th century. Main points of interest - Crypt of Saint Eulalia: Under the main altar is the tomb of Saint Eulalia, a young woman who was martyred to death in 304 AD for defending her Christian faith. - Cloister: Built during the 14th and 15th centuries, the spacious cloister of the cathedral is home to thirteen geese, which recall the age at which Saint Eulalia was martyred. - Choir: With magnificent carved wooden stalls, the choir is one of the most valuable corners of the cathedral's interior. - Terrace: A lift provides access to the top of the cathedral, from where you can see its towers and the city from above, although the views are not too striking. - Chapel of the Holy Christ of Lepanto: This chapel shows a crucified Christ to whom the people of Barcelona have a special devotion. Useful information - Location: Pla de la Seu, 3. - Visiting hours: Monday to Saturday: 1:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. Sundays and holidays: 2:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. - Entrance: €6. - Transport: Metro: Jaume I, line 4. Park Güell Park Güell is a huge garden with peculiar architectural elements created by the unique architect Antonio Gaudí. The park owes its name to Eusebi Güell, a wealthy businessman who was passionate about Gaudí's works and who acted as his main patron. Although the original idea was to build a luxury residential complex, over the years this idea was abandoned and a park worthy of a fairy-tale setting was built instead. The park was opened in 1922 and has since become one of the city's main tourist attractions. In 1984 it was declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site. What's so special about it? Covering an area of over 17 hectares, Park Güell is covered with wavy shapes, tree-like columns, animal figures and geometric forms. Most of the surfaces are decorated with mosaics made from bits of coloured ceramic. Inspired by the shapes of nature, the architect endowed the park with an impressive ornamental creation in which there is no rigidity or classicism. All the sinuous and colourful shapes of the park's elements have an important political and religious symbolism. The artist took advantage of the 60-metre slope of the mountain to create a path of spiritual elevation, at the top of which he planned to build a chapel that was eventually replaced by the Monument to the Calvary, a promontory located at the highest part of the park from which the best views of the city can be obtained. The central point of the park is a large square in which there is a huge bench 110 metres long, with the appearance of a snake covered with small pieces of ceramic. Next to the main entrance to the park there are two little houses that seem to be taken from a fairy tale. One of them functions as a shop while the other, the Casa del Guarda, houses audiovisual exhibitions about the park's past. A must see Park Güell is a magical and peculiar place that always surprises its visitors. A visit to Barcelona would never be complete without a walk through Park Güell. Entry to the monumental area is paid for and long queues form (400 people enter every half hour), so it is recommended to buy the ticket online, avoiding queues and obtaining a small discount. - Location: Carrer d'Olot, 3. North of the Gracia district. - Visiting hours: Every day from 8:00 to 21:00. - Entrance to the monumental area: Adults: €8 and children between 7 and 12 years old: €5.60. - Transport Metro: Lesseps, line L3. Bus: lines 24, 31, 32, 74, 92 and 112. Tourist bus: red line. Güell Palace Built between 1885 and 1890 by the industrialist Eusebi Güell, the Güell Palace (Palau Güell) is a peculiar modernist building that is one of Gaudí's main works. The building, declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO, was built as a private residence for the Güell family and is preserved practically as the artist completed it. A walk through the palace A visit to the Güell Palace consists of a surprising journey that includes everything from the old stable in the basement to the roof terrace, passing through each of the special rooms in the house. The Güell Palace offers a new conception of space and light, displaying original environments full of ornamental elements created by the artist. As with La Pedrera, one of the most peculiar parts of the Güell Palace is the roof terrace, an area of more than 400 square metres decorated with curious chimneys covered with coloured ceramics. Throughout the tour, an audio guide introduces visitors to the magical universe of Gaudí, explaining the reason for each of the original details. Essential The Güell Palace is an extravagant building in which every detail exudes imagination and magic as only Gaudí's works do. The visit to the building is truly surprising, which is why we believe it should be included among the essential visits to Barcelona. - Visiting hours From April 1 to September 30: Tuesday to Sunday from 10:00 to 20:00. From October 1 to March 31: Tuesday to Sunday from 10:00 to 17:30. - Price Adults: €10. Seniors over 65 and students under 25: €8. Children under 12: free entry. First Sunday of the month: free entry. - Transport Metro: Liceu, line 3. Bus: lines 14, 59, 91 and 120. Casa Batlló Built between 1904 and 1906 by Josep Batlló, Casa Batlló is Gaudí's masterpiece, a key piece of modernist architecture in Barcelona that has become more than just a building; it is a myth of art. Behind the fascinating façade of Casa Batlló lies a fantastic world in which, with the help of the audio guide , visitors can discover and enjoy the surprising universe of Gaudí. Once inside the striking building, visitors can tour the former residence of the Batlló family to discover each of its curious corners, highlighting the attractive courtyard and the terrace with its legendary chimneys. Casa Batlló is located in the heart of the city and is one of the most visited and best-rated tourist sites by visitors to Barcelona. It is an essential visit that can amaze and surprise its visitors throughout the entire tour. La Pedrera - Casa Milá Known as La Pedrera due to its rustic stone appearance, Casa Milá is a surprising modernist building created by Gaudí between 1906 and 1912. The peculiar building, located on the central Paseo de Gracia, reflects Gaudí's artistic plenitude at a time when he was working on different projects in the city. First, visitors enter the main floor, where the Milá family lived. Today it houses a large exhibition space, but it is still possible to see some of the curious elements of Gaudí's peculiar universe. Going a little further into the building, you can visit a floor where you can see the recreation of a home belonging to a bourgeois family from Barcelona at the beginning of the 20th century. In the attic of La Pedrera, you can learn about the most distinctive elements of Gaudí's work with the help of models, plans, photographs and videos. The most peculiar part of La Pedrera is the terrace, an unusual space with an impressive artistic and symbolic force. In this original area, the ventilation towers and chimneys become surprising sculptures of petrified warriors. From the terrace, it is also possible to contemplate the centre of Barcelona from above, although it is difficult to look away from the silent army. Useful information - Location: Passeig de Gràcia, 92. - Visiting hours From November to February From Monday to Sunday: 9:00 to 18:30. From March to October From Monday to Sunday: 9:00 to 20:00. - Entrance: Adults: €16.50. Students: €14.85. Children between 7 and 12 years: €8.25. Children under 6 years: free entry. - Transport Bus: lines 7, 16, 17, 22, 24 and 28. Metro: Diagonal, lines 3 and 5. Camp Nou Opened in 1957 as the stadium of FC Barcelona, Camp Nou (Campo Nuevo) is the stadium with the largest capacity in Europe and one of the largest in the world. Witness to the victories and defeats of the team that saw it born, the stadium has enormous worldwide fame that makes it a much-loved, but also hated, place. The Camp Nou experience begins with a tour of the stadium in which visitors enter the changing rooms and follow the same route as the players until they reach the pitch, stepping on the grass that has witnessed so many matches. The presidential seats, the bench and the press room are some of the places that are visited while the audio guide narrates the history of the stadium and the greatest victories of its team. The final point of the visit is the FC Barcelona Museum, a space that allows visitors to learn about the history of the club over more than 100 years through photographs and memories, as well as seeing different trophies and personal objects of the great legends who have been part of the team throughout its history. Useful information: - Visiting hours: From April 2 to October 7 Monday to Saturday: 10:00 to 20:00 Sundays and public holidays: 10:00 to 14:30 Rest of the year Monday to Saturday: 10:00 to 18:30 Sundays and public holidays: 10:00 to 14:30 - Entrance: Adults: €23 Students: €17 Children from 6 to 13 years: €17 Children under 6 years: free entry If you want to save time and avoid long queues to enter, we recommend purchasing your ticket in advance on the stadium's official website (www.fcbarcelona.com/camp‐nou ) . - Transport Metro: Palau Reial, Maria Cristina and Les Corts, line 3; Badal and Collblanc, line 5. Bus: lines 7, 15, 33, 43, 54, 56, 57, 59, 63, 67, 70, 72, 74, 75, 78, 113 and 157. Boquería Market The Mercado de San José, better known as "La Boquería", is a central municipal market located on Las Ramblas in Barcelona. It is the ideal place to buy fresh produce, although today the market has become a striking tourist attraction. The colorful market is a labyrinth of more than 2,500 square meters throughout which there are more than 300 stalls offering all kinds of products. The market was once home to the Convent of San José, founded in 1586. Over time, La Rambla became a place of great public interest and, after the monastery was burned down, they decided to move the market to the place where the convent once stood. Useful information - Location: Calle La Rambla, 91. - Visiting hours: Monday to Saturday: 8:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. - Transport: Metro: Liceu, line 3. - Gastronomy Catalan gastronomy and Barcelona cuisine are rich in flavours based on quality produce from its orchards. It includes a large quantity of vegetables, oily fish and olive oil. Being located between the sea and the mountains, Barcelona obtains the best fruits from both places, and knows how to combine them perfectly with the excellent wines and cavas of the land. Typical dishes of Barcelona - Alioli: Sauce made from emulsified olive oil and garlic. - Romesco: Sauce made from tomatoes, garlic, bread, almonds, hazelnuts, peppers, rosemary, olive oil, vinegar, salt and pepper. - Bread with tomato (pa amb tomàquet): Slice of bread with oil, salt and tomato. It can contain garlic. - Coca de recapte: Dough with baked peppers and aubergines that can contain tuna, onion, sausage, olives, tomatoes or herring. - Butifarra: Fresh pork sausage. - Fuet: Sausage made of minced meat with garlic and pepper. - Escalivada: Baked aubergine, pepper, onion and tomato. - Samfaina: Sautéed aubergine and courgette accompanied by garlic, onion and tomato. - Escudella: Typical stew made of a dough of minced meat with spices, chickpeas, potatoes, cabbage and meat. - Calçots: Local vegetable similar to onion that is grilled and served with romesco sauce. - Xató: Salad with escarole, cod and romesco sauce. - Empedrat: Salad with tomato, cod and beans. - Fabes a la catalana: Broad beans with sausage. - Suquet: Fish stew. - Fricandó: Veal cooked with plums, onions, tomatoes and pine nuts. - Crema catalana: Pastry cream with a layer of caramelised sugar. - Panellet: Sweet dough made with sugar, almonds and egg. - Neulas: Tube-shaped wafers. Best areas to eat In Barcelona, you can find restaurants of any type and price practically all over the city. Some highly recommended areas are the Boquería Market, the Gothic Quarter and Las Ramblas. The Olympic Port is also increasingly fashionable. Panoramic restaurants - Torre de Altamar: Located at the top of the Torre de San Sebastián, this restaurant offers typical Catalan dishes accompanied by pleasant views of the city and its beaches. - Visual: Located on the 23rd floor of the Gran Hotel Torre Catalunya, this restaurant adds interesting 360º panoramic views to the dishes on its menu. - Dos Cielos: The Dos Cielos Restaurant is located on the 24th floor of the ME by Meliá Barcelona hotel. It is a pleasure to taste its designer dishes while looking out over the city from above. Shopping Barcelona is one of the world's great fashion capitals, a cosmopolitan city where shopping lovers can enjoy buying clothes and accessories as well as other specialised products, souvenirs and characteristic elements of the area. In Barcelona it is possible to buy quality products with a designation of origin, such as some wines, liqueurs, sausages, honey and sweets. There are shops specialising in each of the products and they are a very good choice to take home a souvenir of the flavours of the city. Shopping streets - Paseo de Gracia: Along Paseo de Gracia there are numerous luxury brand shops that sometimes make the promenade compared to the Champs Elysees in Paris and Fifth Avenue in New York. - Avenida del Portal de L'Angel: This pleasant pedestrian street is one of the busiest in Spain as well as one of the main shopping streets in the city. It starts from Plaza de Cataluña. - Carrer de la Princessa and Carrer de l'Argenteria: Located in the Born district, they are home to numerous boutiques and exclusive shops that make up the ideal place to find gifts and unique objects. - Calle dels Tallers: Located next to Las Ramblas, in the El Raval district, this narrow street offers a different option from the rest of the shopping areas. Shopping centres For those who want to do a lot of shopping and don't have time to waste, Barcelona has numerous shopping centres and leisure spaces where they can satisfy their needs. - Maremagnum Shopping Centre: Located at the end of Las Ramblas, this modern shopping centre reclaims land from the sea to offer its visitors all kinds of shops, cinemas and an extensive gastronomic offer. - Arenas de Barcelona Shopping Centre: Located in the old bullring next to Plaza de España, this shopping centre is an avant-garde space that combines the past and the present to preserve one of the emblematic buildings of the city. - Diagonal Mar Shopping Centre: Located at the end of Avenida Diagonal, very close to the sea, this shopping centre not only has numerous shops, but also has cinemas and a variety of restaurants. - La Maquinista Shopping Centre: This open-air shopping centre, designed as if it were a small town, is a very pleasant choice despite not being too central. - El Triangle Shopping Centre: Located in Plaza Cataluña, this shopping centre does not stand out from the rest if it were not for its central location. Markets - Boquería Market: The most popular market in the city exudes a true festival of aromas, colours and flavours that make it an essential tourist visit. - Santa Caterina Market: Located near the Cathedral, this refurbished market has become one of the new gastronomic temples of the city. - Concepció Market: This elegant modernist style market located in the L'Eixample neighbourhood has been refurbished and offers a tidy and pleasant interior. - Sant Antoni Market: Built in 1882 on a striking modernist iron structure, this market brings together the characteristic stalls selling food and old books, as well as being a meeting point for all kinds of collectors. Opening hours Most of the city's shops are open from Monday to Saturday from 9:00 to 13:30 and from 17:00 to 20:00, although some small shops close on Saturday afternoons. Large stores are open from Monday to Saturday from 10:00 to 22:00. Some, like the Maremagnum, are open every day of the year. Nightlife If Spain is known for its famous nightlife, Barcelona is, along with Madrid, the best place to check it out. In Barcelona you will find multiple areas full of bars, pubs and terraces, as well as first-class nightclubs. Although you can find clubs open until late at night in any part of the city, there are some areas that stand out above the rest: - Paseo Marítimo de la Barceloneta and the Olympic Village: This is the most well-known and attractive area of Barcelona for tourists visiting the city. The clubs in the Olympic Port have terraces on the beach and are the trendy place when the good weather starts. - Zona Alta (Aribau): It is located very close to Paseo de Gracia and its star street is Aribau. It is the most exclusive area of Barcelona for going out at night and also for living. Here you will find bars, clubs and good restaurants. - María Cubí and Santaló: These are two streets that form part of the Zona Alta of Barcelona and are characterised by the number of music bars, cocktail bars and pubs that there are in both. Very popular with local people. - Eixample: This is the largest and most central district of Barcelona and is home to the city's most famous streets and squares, such as Paseo de Gracia, Rambla de Cataluña, Plaza Cataluña and Gran Via de las Cortes Catalanas. Its bars and restaurants make it the ideal place to enjoy drinks and tapas. Nightclubs - Opium Barcelona (Paseo Marítimo de la Barceloneta, 34): Opium Barcelona is the most famous nightclub in the area and one of the best-known in Barcelona. With a terrace on the beach, it is a favourite with young international audiences. Open every day of the week. - Shoko (Paseo Marítimo de la Barceloneta, 36): Decorated in the purest feng shui style , Shoko is a restaurant/lounge with a terrace that turns into a nightclub after midnight. Open every day of the week. Young atmosphere and crowd. - Bling Bling (Tuset, 10): This is one of the most popular clubs in the Zona Alta by local and international people. With a very elegant and luxurious style, it is a nightclub for an adult and select public. Open from Thursday to Saturday. - Teatre Principal (Las Ramblas, 27): It is the oldest theatre in Barcelona, in the heart of the city, transformed into a nightclub. Well known for the international DJs of the electronic music scene who visit its booths. How to get around The metro is one of the convenient ways, as it has stations in tourist places or very close to them and five lines differentiated by colours, making it a fast, clean and safe option when moving around the city. You can buy tickets for larger amounts (T10, a ticket that is equivalent to 10 trips) if you are going to travel more than once. On the other hand, there are the urban buses (TMB) that go all over Barcelona and the tourist buses that take travellers to the most famous places in the city. Tourists can also travel by taxi, but generally it is more expensive than all other means of transport. There is also the possibility of acquiring the Barcelona Card, a card that allows you to travel free of charge on public transport around the city and also has discounts on restaurants, shops, museums and shows. This can be purchased on the main avenues and tourist spots in the city, as well as large stores such as El Corte Inglés. Climate Barcelona has a Mediterranean climate, characterized by warm temperatures in summer and mild in winter. It is common for light scattered showers to occur throughout the year. Winters in Barcelona are cold but mild, with average maximum temperatures of 16 or 17ºC and minimum temperatures of 4.5ºC. During the months of September and October it is very common for there to be some days of very intense rainfall due to the phenomenon of the cold drop, which can leave more than 80 liters per square meter in a few hours. Meanwhile, summers in Barcelona are warm during the day and somewhat cooler at night. In July and August, average maximum temperatures reach 28ºC and minimum temperatures of 19ºC, with little chance of rain. Best time to travel to Barcelona Any time of year is good to travel to Barcelona, as the winters are not too cold and the summers not too hot. If you want to enjoy a few days on the beach during your visit, the best months are from May to the end of July, as they are the warmest without being as hot as August.