ZURICH TOURIST GUIDE ZURICH Zurich is a small city, but it has a huge cultural weight, its main tourist heritage. At this point, it stands out for its historic center of unparalleled beauty, compacted into a few streets that can be easily explored on foot; churches, monuments, medieval buildings and more than 30 museums are part of the landscape that you will find walking through the narrow streets that are spread out along both banks of the Limmat River. Another characteristic of Zurich are its universities, which provide an important movement of restaurants and cafes in the city. The population enjoys a high standard of living and poverty is hardly seen on its streets. Activities and Attractions Zurich Art Gallery The Zurich Art Gallery is the main gallery in the city and one of the most important in the country. It has paintings and sculptures by the great Swiss masters and from other places in Europe, including works by Monet and Edward Munch, as well as an impressive collection of photographs by Alberto Giacometti and the Dada movement. Guided tours are available in English but you must book in advance. It is located at Heimplatz 1. Zunfthaus zur Meisen The Zunfthaus Zur Meisen museum houses an important display of oriental culture, which is mainly reflected in 18th-century Chinese ceramics and porcelain. The building also has a special beauty, with a baroque aesthetic and is considered one of the most beautiful buildings in the city. It is located at Munsterhof 20 and is open between 10:30 and 17:00 hours. Swiss National Museum Located between the Limmat and Sihl rivers, the Swiss National Museum has a permanent collection of works by Swiss and European artists. This place has a surprising architectural proposal, evoking a Swiss castle. Apart from the artworks, weapons, flags, clocks and prehistoric objects are also on display. It is located at Museumstrasse 2. It is open from Tuesday to Sunday between 11:00 and 17:00. Rietberg Museum Housed in three beautiful buildings, the museum of non-European art, known as the Rietberg Museum, offers visitors a beautiful collection of Indian, Chinese and African art. You should keep an eye on its schedule, as from time to time it hosts music concerts from different places around the world. It is located in an area called Villa Wesendonck. Blu Blu is one of the must-see places in Zurich. It is one of the most sophisticated restaurants in the city, where mainly young people go looking for a different place. Located in an old 19th-century laundry on the banks of the Zurichsee River, in this restaurant you can enjoy beautiful views of the city, as well as a menu with an emphasis on Italian dishes. It is located at Seesstrasse 457. Migros Museum für Gegenwartskunst Zurich is the city of museums, which is why it also has a place where you can enjoy contemporary art. The Museum of Contemporary Art is the place dedicated to displaying collections from the 1990s onwards. Its address is Limmatstrasse 270. Grossmünster Cathedral Grossmünster is the most impressive cathedral in the city and has become a symbol of Zurich. It has two twin towers that give it a unique appearance. It was created by Charlemagne and was built between the 9th and 13th centuries. Visiting hours are between 09:00 and 18:00 from Monday to Saturday and from 10:00 to 17:00 on Sundays. Admission is free, but there is a charge to visit the towers. It is located in Zwingliplatz. Fraumünster This beautiful church dates back to the 19th century and is notable for its impressive stained glass windows created by the artist Marc Chagall. Fraumünster is one of the most important buildings in the city and its crypts were built in 853. Visiting hours are flexible depending on the time of year. Admission is free and it is located in the Munsterhof sector. Zurich Zoo With a collection of 1,500 animals from all over the world, the Zurich Zoo is one of the city's interesting attractions. One of the peculiarities of this place is that the animals are housed in areas that recreate their natural ecosystems. The zoo has good restaurants to visit during your stay. The address is Zurichbergstrasse 221. Botanischer Garten The Zurich Botanical Garden, or Botanischer Garten, is a good place to escape the hustle and bustle of the city, take a break and enjoy the beauty of a million different plants. There is vegetation that represents different ecosystems, from riverine forests to the Alps. If you wish to visit it, you should go to Zollijerstrasse 107. Opening hours are Monday to Friday from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. and Saturdays and Sundays from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. between the months of October and February. Admission is free. Gastronomy Swiss gastronomy is very varied. The national speciality is fondue, a mixture of melted Gruyère and Vacherin cheeses, with white wine, kirsch and a little garlic. National specialities: ‐ Viande sechée: dried beef or pork from the Valais and Grisons regions where they are called Bündnerfleisch and served with onions. ‐ Papet vaudoir: leeks and potatoes. ‐ Pieds de porc: stewed pig's trotters. ‐ Fondue Bourguignonne: cubed meat with various sauces. ‐ Leckerli: honey cakes with icing sugar and decorated in Bern with a white sugar bear. ‐ Fasnachtküchli : sugar -dusted cakes typical of Easter. ‐ Gugelhopf: sponge cake with a hole in the centre. ‐ Schaffhausen : cream-filled cakes. National drinks: ‐ Beer ‐ Pflümli ‐ Kirsch ‐ Williams: liqueur ‐ Marc Tipping: By law all bills in hotels, restaurants, cafés , bars, taxis and hairdressers include a service charge, so tipping is not necessary. Shopping The largest shopping street is Bahnhofstrasse, where you can find many shops selling sophisticated Swiss products, including classic watches and knives, both of which are world-famous. On Saturdays, Burkiplatz is home to a market where you can find handicrafts and antique furniture. Swiss products par excellence are chocolates. To buy chocolates, we recommend Confiserie Sprungli, located at Bahnhofstrasse 21. This shop is the oldest confectionery in the city and offers a variety of more than 50 chocolates. Nightlife Niederdorfstrasse is the main area for going out at night . On this street you will find bars, cafes and clubs. In the fourth and fifth districts there are also some great places to go out. Bars close at 2 a.m., while clubs are usually open until 4 a.m. The minimum age to enter clubs is 18 years old. Getting around Switzerland's urban transport system is so efficient and well-integrated that it is a model for many countries. There are tram and light rail services in Basel, Bern, Geneva, Neuchâtel and Zurich. In addition to these cities, there are a dozen other towns that have trolleybuses. The fare system is generally automatic with ticket machines (single or multiple) located on the streets. Ticket values depend on the distances and the number of stops made. It is recommended to buy a ticket for a daily pass called Tagerskarte that gives unlimited travel for a 24-hour period. Ferries are also part of the public transport system. These trains run to towns around Lake Zurich and operate daily from 09:00 to 19:00. Taxis are available throughout the city. They usually receive a tip of 15% of the fare, and if you carry luggage you should add two francs to the tip. Climate It is recommended to visit Zurich during the summer, that is, between the months of July and August, due to its good climate that allows you to walk around the city without the risk of encountering snowfalls that impede walking. What to wear Warm clothing and rain gear during the winter; light cotton clothing and some warm clothing for the summer.