Los Angeles Travel Guide 1Table of Contents Important Information 3 Airport Map 5 Los Angeles 6 Hollywood, Beverly Hills and the Beaches 7 Los Angeles Attractions 8 Film and TV Studio Tours 10 Theme and Amusement Parks 10 Shopping in Los Angeles 11 Southern California Beaches 12 Danish Village 15 2Important Information for Your Trip Customs clearance at Los Angeles International Airport requires that the appropriate forms be filled out correctly. Failure to do so will result in officers making you fill them out again and placing you at the back of the line. Lines can be long at the Los Angeles City Immigration Sector, especially if you arrive during peak travel times. We want to help you save time during your arrival inspection at Los Angeles International Airport. Avoiding errors on customs and immigration forms is the first step to a smooth and successful entry. Nonimmigrant visitors entering Los Angeles through Los Angeles International Airport on a visa must complete Form I-94 (white form). The passenger must complete Form I-94 upon arrival in the United States. The information required on Form I-94 includes: 1. Last name 2. First name 3. Date of birth 4. Country of citizenship 5. Sex 6. Passport number 7. Airline and flight number 8. Country of residence 9. City where you boarded the plane 10. City where the visa was issued 11. Date of issue 12. Address during your stay in the United States 13. City and state The bottom portion of the back requires: 14. Full name 15. Date of birth 16. Country of citizenship Tips for completing Form I-94 correctly: 1. Complete the immigration forms starting on the line below the line number. 2. Copy the airline name, flight number, and city of origin from your ticket. 3. Provide your address in the United States, which may include the name of the hotel and the city where you will be staying. 34. Take special care when completing the departure information at the bottom of Form I-94. Remember to complete the entire customs form even if you have nothing to declare upon arrival; this will save you time at immigration. 5. You must complete both the Customs and Immigration forms even if you are in transit and must connect to another international flight (unless you are going to a transit lounge). Connecting to another international flight (unless you are going to a transit lounge). 6. For the green I-94W forms, remember to complete the back of the forms, sign and date them. 7. After passing the inspection process, the customs officer will stamp the arrival and departure sections of Form I-94, your passport, and the customs declaration. 8. The officer will retain the arrival section of Form I-94 and return the departure section and the passport to the applicant. Consulate of Argentina in Los Angeles: Office: Consulate Street: 5055 Wilshire Blvd. Suite 210 City: Los Angeles Province / State: California Country: United States Telephone/s: (+1-323) 9549155, 9549157, 9549111, 9549112 Fax: (+1-323) 9349076 Mail: argpromo@pacbell.net, arconsul@pacbell.net Website: www.consuladoargentino-losangeles.org 4Airport Map 5Los Angeles It is the largest city in California and the second largest city in the United States. It is located on the Southern California coast about 75 miles (120 km) north of the Mexican border and 400 miles (600 km) south of San Francisco. The city's original name was "The Town of Our Lady Queen of Angels," but it was shortened for obvious reasons. Los Angeles is located on an irregular coastal plain between 30 and 60 miles wide. It is bordered on the west by nearly 60 miles of beaches and cliffs of the Pacific Ocean. The San Gabriel and San Bernardino Mountains form a 2,500-meter-high wall on the east. The Santa Monica Mountains define its northern border and the Santa Ana Mountains define its southern border. The inhabitants of Los Angeles live throughout this plain, in the surrounding hills, on the slopes of the mountain ranges, and in the valleys that connect them. The city now covers more than 1,000 square miles with dozens of interconnected communities. High-rise buildings exist only in isolated pockets. From almost any point in the city you can see for miles around the many low-rise buildings and tall palm trees towering over them. In order to travel through these widely spread neighborhoods, the city of Los Angeles has created a magnificent system of wide streets and avenues that include 10-14 lane freeways. This will allow you to travel quickly through the vast metropolitan complex most of the time. Try to avoid traveling on the freeways from 7 to 9 a.m. and 4 to 6 p.m., when millions of cars commute to and from work and fill the freeways. The pollution produced by these millions of cars combined with the humid air from the Pacific Ocean forms a dirty, gray haze known as the Los Angeles Smog. 6Unlike most cities, Los Angeles does not have a defined downtown area. It is a collection of distinct communities linked by a complex network of roads and freeways. Each community offers a different and individual personality. Together they make up the vast metropolitan complex of Los Angeles. Hollywood, Beverly Hills and the Beaches Hollywood is the historic site of the old movie studios and Beverly Hills is still home to movie stars. Along the Pacific coast are several upmarket beach communities, including Malibu, Santa Monica, Marina Del Rey and Palos Verde. Venice Beach, on the other hand, is famous for its bikini-clad girls on roller skates, muscled men lifting weights and all sorts of oddballs. Long Beach is a growing seaport with a vibrant business district and oil wells. Laguna Beach has a large artist community. Hollywood is the historic site of the old movie studios and Beverly Hills is still home to movie stars. Here you can drive along the western end of historic Route 66 along Santa Monica Boulevard. You can also walk along the famous Hollywood Boulevard and the Sunset Strip. In the neighbouring community of Burbank you can visit many modern film and television studios. In Anaheim you can see the original amusement park, Disneyland, and Knott's Berry Farm. Downtown is certainly a commercial district, but it is not the city's urban center, as it competes with many other surrounding neighborhoods. Near downtown are ethnic neighborhoods with significant Asian populations, these neighborhoods are known as Korea Town, China Town, and Japan Town. Nearby are several predominantly African-American neighborhoods and many predominantly Hispanic-American neighborhoods. Los Angeles Attractions Hollywood The best way to see Hollywood is by taking a walking tour. Most of the attractions are located within a few blocks of Mann's Chinese Theatre on Hollywood Boulevard. The courtyard of the Chinese Theatre, as it is known in Hollywood, is one of the most popular attractions in Hollywood because of all the handprints and shoe prints of every Hollywood celebrity since 1927. If you go between noon and midnight, you can catch a recent blockbuster movie at the theater. The Hollywood Boulevard Walk of Fame honors those who have made their mark in movies, music, and theater by giving them a star on the sidewalk. You can spend hours looking for your favorite stars. There are many guided bus tours of Hollywood and movie stars' homes. Most of them leave from Mann's Chinese Theatre and the price varies depending on the length of the tour. These tours provide an overview of the major things to see in Hollywood. You will also notice that there are many vendors around LA offering maps to movie stars' homes. Most of these maps are old and inaccurate. Hollywood Bowl The Hollywood Bowl is a natural amphitheater, located in the hills outside of Los Angeles. It is home to the Los Angeles Philharmonic Orchestra and the Hollywood 8 Bowl Orchestra. Frank Sinatra, The Beatles, and Mikhail Baryshnikov are just a few of the legendary artists who have performed there. Several concerts are scheduled throughout the summer months, but the Bowl is open to visitors daily throughout the year and is free! The Hollywood Bowl's official website has information about the history of the Bowl and the concert schedule. You can also purchase tickets online. www.hollywoodbowl.org Griffith Park Griffith Park and Planetarium is located on the Hollywood edge. It features recreational facilities, nature areas, and several family-friendly attractions. You can go on a pony ride, hike in nature, or take a scenic drive through the park. Griffith Park has an excellent view of the famous Hollywood sign! The planetarium and observatory offer science exhibits and various shows throughout the day, and it is a popular place to view the lights of LA at dusk. The Gene Autry Western Heritage Museum, which presents the history of Western migration in the United States, is located in this area. The exhibit features clothing, weapons, and tools used in the Old West, including some props from old cowboy movies. The official website for the Gene Autry Museum is www.autry-museum.org. Forest Lawn Memorial Park, where some famous Hollywood stars are buried, is also nearby. At this park, you can see many marble and bronze statues as well as the Mexican History Museum. LA Zoo The LA Zoo has over 1,500 animals, birds and reptiles in replicas of their natural habitat. It is located within Griffith Park near the intersection of the Golden State and Ventura freeways. The underground "Tram" train is a great way to get around the park. Be sure to check out Adventure Island, a new children's zoo featuring animals native to the American Southwest! Admission to the park is $8. Ask if there are any current discounts! For more information, visit the LA Zoo website at www.lazoo.org. La Brea Tar Pits The La Brea Tar Pits Ranch has been featured in many Hollywood movies. For nearly forty thousand years, the mine pit has emitted a large amount of thick, sticky asphalt, which has trapped many specimens of prehistoric plants and animals. From the observation deck, you can see replicas of extinct mammals stuck in the bubbling tar. At the George C. Page Museum of La Brea Discoveries, located near the pit, you can see fossils recovered from the pit and learn more about the site. The website for the museums is at www.tarpits.org. Film and Television Studio Tours Many of the famous film and television production studios are located in Los Angeles, especially near Hollywood and Burbank. Some of the film and television studios offer tours to the public. This is a great way to see the magic of the movies "behind the scenes." Warner Brothers, Paramount and Universal (part of the theme park) as well as the television networks NBC and CBS all offer interesting tours. Prices vary. You can get admission to a taping of a popular comedy show or talk show just by going to Universal City early in the morning. NBC has a booth in the park where they give out free tickets to the Tonight Show. Inside the park, the studios have other booths where they convince volunteers to perform on a comedy show. You can also visit Audience Unlimited. Theme Parks and Amusement Parks: There are four major amusement parks in the Los Angeles area: Disneyland: The largest and most popular, located in Anaheim. It has more than 60 major attractions. 10Universal Studios offers a two-part tour that begins with a demonstration of the production of a movie. The second part features live shows and thrill rides themed to popular movies. Six Flags Magic Mountain is a park with more than 100 rides, shows and attractions. Knott's Berry Farm, in Buena Park, is the first amusement park in the United States. The atmosphere of the Old West was reproduced here and it features live shows, games and places to shop. Shopping in Los Angeles The most famous and exclusive shopping area in the world is Rodeo Drive in Beverly Hills, where we find art galleries, high fashion stores and exclusive jewelry stores. These stores attract the rich and famous who go shopping only by appointment. Of course it costs nothing to window shop and there is a chance of meeting a famous person. The Downtown Area In Los Angeles there are places to shop everywhere. In the downtown area we have Macey's Plaza at 7th and 8th, Hope and Flower, we also have Seventh Market Place, at 7th and 8th, Figueroa and the Harbor Freeway. In downtown we also find the clothing district and the jewelry district along Hill Street. Chinatown, Little Tokyo ... Farmers Market You can buy many souvenirs and inexpensive items in Chinatown, Little Tokyo and on Olvera Street. There is a fun place to shop for food, clothing and gifts called the Farmers Market at 3rd and Fairfax. West Hollywood, W. Los Angeles, Glendale In many suburban communities you will find shopping areas and large plazas belonging to the area such as the Beverly Center in West Hollywood (which also has a Hard Rock Cafe), the Glendale Galleria and the Westside Pavilion in West Los Angeles. These include large department stores such as Neiman-Marcus, Nordstrom, Macy's, Robinson-May and Saks Fifth Avenue, as well as many smaller specialty shops and boutiques. 11Discount Stores There are also many discount stores around LA in Ontario, Barstow, Lake Elsinore and Cabazon. You can find great deals if you shop carefully and look for "special sales." Frederick's of Hollywood When in Hollywood, be sure to stop by the original Frederick's of Hollywood for lingerie and other sexy items. If you are a movie fan, you might enjoy some of the "thrift" shops that sell outfits used in different movies. The Pasadena Flea Market If you are lucky enough to be in Los Angeles on the second Sunday of every month, you can enjoy a visit to the flea market found only once a month at the Rose Bowl in Pasadena. It covers the entire football field and is rarely visited by tourists. www.rgcshows.com The Beaches of Southern California Santa Monica is located on the shore of the Pacific Ocean about 30 minutes from downtown LA. On the Third Street Promenade, you can find interesting shops, charming outdoor cafes, and entertainment from street performers. The famous Santa Monica Beach is just a short walk from downtown. Venice Beach, just south of Santa Monica, is famous for its unique and somewhat quirky culture. Along the shoreline are lined small shops where you can find anything from very cheap trendy clothes to tattoos! Muscle Beach is an open-air gym by the ocean where many California Hunks work out, and the sidewalk is great for watching the beautiful California Girls rollerblading in bikinis. The 12th Street performers seem to set up a stage wherever they find a free space on the sand, grass, or sidewalk! If you prefer a beach where you can relax in the sun, away from the tourist crowds, head north or south of the city. LA locals head to Laguna, Zuma, Malibu, and Pacific Palisades to get away from the city for a while. These beaches are usually cleaner and have fewer tourist attractions. North of Los Angeles Santa Barbara The city of Santa Barbara is located on the California coast about 90 miles (150 km) north of Los Angeles. It is relatively sheltered from the Pacific Ocean's harsh climate by a group of uninhabited rocky islands, known simply as the Channel Islands, about 30 miles to the west across the Santa Barbara Channel. Its beautiful beaches and sheltered waters provide an ideal environment for swimming, boating, and sunbathing. The California Riviera A range of low mountains with spectacular views of the harbor almost completely surrounds the city. Many beautiful but very expensive homes adorn the slopes of these mountains. A few miles inland, the great wall of the Santa Inés Mountains forms a picturesque backdrop to the east. This part of the California Coast is also known as the California Riviera, and is a beautiful tourist destination but a very expensive place to live. You can get to Santa Ana by car, a two-hour drive north from Los Angeles on the 101 Freeway. Along the way, you'll pass some beautiful scenery as the route winds through the coastal mountains and into the many secluded beaches. Santa Barbara Municipal Airport is small but has a good variety of daily flights from most western cities. Amtrak's Pacific Surfliner train offers a half-dozen daily trips from Los Angeles and San Diego to Santa Barbara. Beautiful Beaches Santa Barbara's main attraction is its beautiful, wide beaches lined with rows of palm trees and immaculately maintained parks. It resembles the gorgeous Santa Monica Beach in North Los Angeles, but without the congestion, traffic or air pollution. It even has a long pier with restaurants, businesses and amusement parks. On any given Saturday afternoon in August, this beach has 13 very few people on the beach, scattered across this wide sandy expanse. This is what makes Santa Barbara an ideal weekend getaway spot for Southern California residents, including many Los Angeles natives. To the north and south of downtown Santa Barbara are many narrow beaches that are ideal for surfing. Near Carpinteria, about 15 miles south of Santa Barbara, is Point Rincon, rated as the best surfing spot in all of California. There are several surf schools in Santa Barbara that offer to teach you how to surf like a native Californian in just one day. At the Santa Barbara Harbor you can rent kayaks or sailboats. You can take whale-watching cruises, or take boats for fishing trips or excursions to the Channel Islands nature reserves. Bicycles and pedal cars are also available for rent. Also known as the American Riviera, Santa Barbara is a popular tourist destination in California, offering a variety of lodging and hotel options close to beaches and tourist attractions. There are no high rise hotels or beach condos in Santa Barbara. The beach area is surrounded by small, fine hotels, restaurants and businesses. All the streets in the city are lined with palm trees and flowering plants. The main shopping and entertainment area is on State Street, and begins about 6 blocks from the beach. This city has a wonderful variety of fine restaurants, boutiques and high end shopping centers. During the weekend evenings, the bars and nightclubs on State Street have live entertainment that attracts tourists and locals alike. The city also offers a ballet, a symphony, theaters, museums and many art galleries. Golf lovers will find the ideal climate here year round, with several beautiful golf courses near Santa Barbara, with beautiful fairways lined with palm trees. The main shopping and entertainment area is on State Street, and begins about 6 blocks from the beach. 14If you're out and about, you'll enjoy exploring the Old Spanish Presidio and the Santa Barbara Mission in the older parts of town. The courthouse is worth a visit and has a striking combination of modern design and typical Spanish colonial style features. From Santa Barbara, it's less than an hour's drive over the mountains to the Santa Ynez Valley, with its flower farms and vineyards. This is the heart of California's Central Coast wine region, and several excellent Pinot Noir and Chardonnay grapes are grown here. You can visit many of the vineyards and taste their wines. A Danish Village in California Solvang, located on Route 101 in the Santa Ines Valley, is one of the most unique towns in the U.S. It's a complete Danish village, with Danish architecture, Danish restaurants, and Danish businesses. It's a great place to stop for lunch during your explorations of the Santa Ines Valley. The best time to visit the California Riviera is from May to October. Temperatures during this half of the year are generally warm enough to lay on the beach and enjoy outdoor activities. The waters of the Pacific Ocean are a bit chilly for swimming. During the winter months, it is generally warm enough to do outdoor activities like golf or tennis, but it is a bit chilly for sunbathing or swimming. During the summer, the weather does not get too hot thanks to ocean breezes that keep temperatures very pleasant. 15To travel is to become worldly is to meet other people is to start over. To start by reaching out to learn from the strong is to feel lonely. To travel is to leave home is to dress like a crazy person saying everything and nothing with a postcard. It is to sleep in another bed to feel that time is short. To travel is to return! Gabriel García Márquez 16