LONDON TOURIST GUIDE LONDON London, the political and economic capital of the United Kingdom, is one of the most visited cities in the world due to its special and cosmopolitan character. London has something that hooks everyone and that everyone likes. London is fun, culture, lights and colour, a city capable of surprising both those who visit it for the first time, as well as those who fell in love with it and cannot stop visiting it. Activities and Attractions Whitehall and Westminster Districts These districts have been, for more than a thousand years, the centres of political and religious power in England, so they have a great wealth of monuments, scarce in other areas of the city. Every day its streets are filled with officials since the Administration offices are located in this district. In the north, Trafalgar Square marks the beginning of the West End, a district of lively nightlife. Piccadilly and St Jame's This is the main artery of the West End. In the 18th century it was surrounded by royal residences and was the favourite shopping place for courtiers. The most fashionable area of London is still Mayfair in the north. Picadilly Circus marks the beginning of Soho. Soho and Trafalgar Square Created at the end of the 17th century, it was the most fashionable place in London for its first hundred years. Artists and intellectuals frequent its informal pubs and clubs. Today it is the most permissive area and one of the most multiracial districts. It is known for its Chinatown. Covent Garden and Strand This is one of the liveliest districts in London. The area's main tourist attraction is its outdoor cafes, street performers, luxury shops and markets. At its centre is the Piazza designed in 1630 by Inigo Jones. Bloombury and Fitzrovia This area is home to artists and writers. It has numerous bookshops. Bloomsbury is also home to the University of London, the British Museum and numerous Georgian squares. Holborn and Inns of Court This is where lawyers and journalists congregated. This district is home to the Royal Courts of Justice and the Inns of Court. This is London's legal district. It has buildings from the 15th century, several of which predate the Great Fire of 1666. Holborn was once an important commercial district. The City Although its full name is the City of London, it is also known as the City. This is London's financial district, home to the Stock Exchange and the Bank of England, and is very busy during the day. Smithfield and Spitalfields This is one of London's most historic areas. To the north of the City, it served as a refuge for those who were not welcome there. In the 17th century, Huguenots and other immigrants from Europe and Bengal settled here, built factories and brought their cuisine and religion with them. It is home to one of the oldest churches in the capital, some Jacobean houses, remains of the Roman wall and the only wholesale food market in the city centre. Southwark and Bankside From the Middle Ages to the 18th century, Southwark was a popular area outside the jurisdiction of the City authorities, where many pleasures and amusements were forbidden and the area provided an escape route. The Globe Theatre, which has been rebuilt close to its original site, was the home of Shakespeare's company. In the 18th and 19th centuries, the area was filled with docks, warehouses and factories. Today, Southwark is one of London's most lively neighbourhoods. South Bank This area was badly damaged by bombing in World War II. In 1951, it was chosen as the site of the Festival of Britain, which commemorated the centenary of the Great Exhibition. The only building still standing from 1951 is the Royal Festival Hall. Chelsea Many artists were attracted by the views of the river from Cheyne Walk. In the 18th century, its gardens were filled with beautiful courtesans and the Chelsea Arts Club organised outrageous balls for over a century. In the 19th century it was populated by artists and intellectuals. Today it is a very expensive area for artists, but it maintains its links to the artistic world with its numerous art galleries and antique shops. South Kensington and Knightsbridge These areas are among the most elegant in London, with their numerous embassies and consulates. Due to its proximity to Kensington Palace this area has retained its original appearance. Knightsbridge is home to very wealthy people and has very luxurious shops. The area also has a cultural character due to the large number of museums and university institutions. Kensington and Holland Park Until 1830 the area was a rural market town and mansions. The most famous is Holland House, part of whose land is now Holland Park. Most of its buildings date from the 19th century, with magnificent Victorian houses, two of which can be visited. The west and north sides of Kensington Gardens form an upmarket residential area, where many foreign embassies are located. Regent's Park and Marylebone Marylebone, a former medieval town south of Regent's Park, has the largest concentration of Georgian mansions in the capital. Until the 18th century, it was surrounded by fields and gardens. In the 19th century, the houses were mainly occupied by doctors, so today it retains its medical tradition and elegance. Greenwich and Blackheath Greenwich is best known for being the place where the prime meridian is defined. It is home to the National Maritime Museum. In Greenwich we can enjoy museums, bookshops, antique shops, markets and a park. Palace of Westminster The Palace of Westminster, also known as the Houses of Parliament, is a Victorian Gothic building that houses the two Chambers that make up the British Parliament. In October 1834, a devastating fire destroyed the old palace that had housed Parliament since 1512. Today only a tiny part remains, consisting of Westminster Hall, the cloisters and crypt of St Stephen's Chapel and the Jewel Tower, a 14th-century building that housed jewels and gold. The new palace Of the 97 projects submitted for the construction of the new building, the winners of the competition were the architects Charles Barry and Augustus Welby Pugin. In 1847 the building was practically finished with the construction of 1,200 rooms, 11 courtyards and 3.5 kilometres of corridors. The ostentatious façade of the building offers a beautiful panorama while the golden pinnacles and statues of the kings are reflected in the river. The palace is flanked by Victoria Tower, an imposing tower that houses copies of all the acts of Parliament since 1497, and also by the charismatic tower of Big Ben. Useful information - Visiting times The Palace of Westminster is only open to the public on Saturdays and during the summer months. Tickets can be obtained by queuing on the day, but it is advisable to arrive early. Guided tours: Saturday: 9.15am - 4.30pm. August: Monday: 1.15pm - 5.30pm and Tuesday to Friday: 9.15am - 5.30pm. September: Tuesday to Friday: 9.15am - 4.30pm. Parliamentary sessions (October to July) o Monday and Tuesday: 2.30pm - 10.30pm. o Wednesday: 11.30am - 7.30pm. o Thursday: 10.30am - 6.30pm. - Admission: Adults: £16.50. Students: £14. - Transport: Underground: Westminster, Circle, District and Jubilee lines. Westminster Abbey Westminster Abbey is London's oldest and most famous temple. Chosen as the site of royal coronations, the abbey also houses the tombs of British monarchs and historical figures from the past thousand years. Built in the Romanesque style, the abbey was consecrated in 1065 to house Benedictine monks. Between 1245 and 1517 it was rebuilt in the Gothic style and underwent its greatest transformation in the 18th century, after the construction of the two main entrance towers. Although the abbey was seized by Henry VIII during the Dissolution of the Monasteries in 1534 and closed in 1540, it was saved from destruction because it was under the direct control of the Crown of England, outside the jurisdiction of the Church. These strong ties to the crown also saved the abbey from attacks by iconoclasts in the 1640s. Since the coronation of William the Conqueror in 1066, every English monarch has been crowned at Westminster Abbey using a medieval coronation throne from the 11th century that still stands today. The interior of Westminster Abbey The walls of the abbey contain some of the finest examples of medieval London architecture. With an impressive collection of tombs and mausoleums of great British personalities, it holds a privileged place in the British national consciousness. The abbey has numerous places of interest within it, all of which are explained in the audio-guided tour. These are some of the highlights inside: - Lady Chapel: One of the most impressive chapels in the abbey, the Lady Chapel preserves a superb ceiling and choir stalls from 1512. - Poets' Corner: Known as the "Poets' Corner", it houses the tombs and mausoleums of great literary geniuses such as Charles Dickens, William Shakespeare, Geoffrey Chaucer, Samuel Johnson and Rudyard Kipling. - St. Edward's Throne: The medieval coronation throne, dating back to the 11th century, is the same one on which sovereigns sit to be crowned by the Archbishop of Canterbury. - Cloisters: The beautiful cloisters built between the 13th and 14th centuries connect the abbey church with the rest of the buildings. - Collage Garden: Over 900 years old, Collage Garden is the oldest park in England. Useful Information - Visiting hours Cloisters: daily 8am - 6pm. Abbey: o Monday to Friday: 9.30am - 4.30pm. o Saturday: 9.30am - 2.30pm. o Sunday: closed to tourists. - Entry: (includes audio guide) Adults: £18. Students and over 60s: £15. Children 11-18: £8. Children under 11: free. - Transport Underground: Westminster, Circle, District and Jubilee lines. Bus: lines 3, 11, 12, 24, 29, 53, 70, 77, 77A, 88, 109, 148, 159, 170 and 211. Tower of London Built under the reign of William I, the Tower of London is a huge fortification that has served throughout its history as a royal residence, arsenal, fortress and prison. For over 900 years the Tower of London was synonymous with terror because it was the place where all those who offended the monarch were locked up. Most prisoners lived in appalling conditions and did not emerge alive, or were tortured before being executed on nearby Tower Hill. There were many important figures who had the misfortune of suffering within the walls of the Tower of London, including deposed kings, aristocrats and clerics accused of treason, such as Queen Consort Anne Boleyn, Queen Jane Grey, Baron William Hastings, and the philosopher and writer Thomas More. What to see in the Tower of London - The Crown Jewels: Made up of crowns, swords and scepters of incalculable material, historical and religious value, the collection of the Crown Jewels is one of the favorite attractions for visitors. - The White Tower: Known as the Tower of London, it is the central and oldest building in the Tower of London, as well as the one that gives its name to the fortification. Built between 1078 and 1100, the White Tower has served as a royal residence, armory and prison. - Ravens: Ravens are the most famous residents of the Tower of London. Legend has it that if the ravens were to disappear, the tower would collapse, and with it the kingdom. To prevent such a catastrophe, one of the guards protecting the tower, known as the Ravenmaster, looks after the ravens and cuts off the tips of one of their wings to prevent them from escaping. - Medieval Palace: As well as being an imposing fortress, the tower was also a comfortable home for members of the royalty. In the area of the Medieval Palace, some remains of the furniture are still preserved, showing the luxury and opulence that once reigned in the tower. - Royal Chapel of St Peter and Vincula: Built in 1520, the chapel in the tower is where the remains of the most famous prisoners who were executed in the tower are kept. Today the chapel remains a place of prayer for the more than 150 people who live in the tower. Useful Information - Visiting hours Tuesday to Saturday: 9am to 5.30pm. Monday and Sunday: 10am to 5.30pm. - Admission: (includes audio guide) Adults: £21.45. Under 16s: £10.75. Students and over 60s: £18.15. Children under 11: free. - Transport Underground: Tower Hill, Circle, District and DLR lines. Bus: lines 8, 9, 11, 15, 15B, 22B, 25, 133 and 501. Buckingham Palace Buckingham Palace is the official residence of the British Royal Family in London since 1837. It is currently the residence of Queen Elizabeth II. Built in 1703 for the Duke of Buckingham, the building was purchased by King George III in 1762 to be used as a private residence. Since its construction it has been extended and remodelled on several occasions. During both World Wars the palace survived in exemplary fashion. In the First World War it was lucky not to be attacked, but during the Second World War it was bombed on several occasions. The Chapel Royal was destroyed by major bombing in 1940. Useful information - Visiting hours: 27 July to 31 August: 9.30am to 7pm (last admission 4.45pm). 1 September to 29 September: 9.30am to 6pm (last admission 3.45pm). - Admission: Buckingham Palace and State Rooms: o Adults: £19. o Students and over 60s: £17.50. o Under 17s: £10.85. o Under 5s: free. Buckingham Palace, State Rooms, Royal Coach House and The Queen's Gallery: o Adult: £33.25. o Students and over 60s: £30.50. o Under 17s: £16.35. o Children under 5: free entry. - Transport Underground: Green Park, Jubilee, Piccadilly and Victoria lines. Bus: lines 11, 211, 239, C1 and C10. Changing of the Guard The Changing of the Guard is one of London's most important tourist attractions. During the ceremony, which takes place at the main entrance to Buckingham Palace, the guards who are responsible for the palace's security are relieved in a very special way, accompanied by a military band. The event lasts approximately 45 minutes, during which the guards crowned with enormous fur hats parade to the rhythm of different musical themes, both military and more modern. The Changing of the Guard takes place daily at 11:30 a.m. from May to July. The rest of the year it takes place every other day, except on rainy days when the show is usually cancelled. St Paul's Cathedral Standing at 110 metres tall, London's St Paul's Cathedral is the second largest cathedral in the world, just behind St Peter's Basilica in Rome. This cathedral is Christopher Wren's masterpiece. The site of St Paul's Cathedral has been occupied by religious buildings since time immemorial, as it was the site chosen for a dolmen and later a Greek temple. The temple was replaced by the oldest church in England, built in 604. The cathedral, built of wood, was one of the many buildings affected by the fire of 1666 and had to be rebuilt on several occasions until it became the impressive building it stands today, erected between 1676 and 1710. Since its construction, St Paul's Cathedral has been the venue for important events, such as the funeral of Winston Churchill or the wedding of Prince Charles and Lady Diana. St Paul's Cathedral inside St Paul's Cathedral is a huge temple with a cross-shaped floor plan that features striking decoration, especially on the beautiful ceilings decorated with fresco paintings. - The dome Probably the greatest attraction of the cathedral is its large dome, made up of three circular galleries. After climbing 257 steps you reach the first of these, the Whispering Gallery, situated at a height of 30 metres. This is a place with incredible acoustics where you can hear even the slightest sound produced at the opposite end of the dome. After climbing a further 376 steps you reach the Stone Gallery, which offers pleasant views from the outside of the dome, although these are surpassed by those of the Golden Gallery, situated at a height of 85 metres. - The crypt The entrails of St Paul's Cathedral are perforated, forming a large crypt in which some fragments of the previous temples and different monuments and memorials are preserved, as well as the remains of some great British figures such as Nelson, Wellington and Churchill. Useful information - Visiting hours: Monday to Saturday: 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. - Entrance: Adults: £16. Students and over 60s: £14. Children between 6 and 17 years: £6. Children under 5 years: free entry. - Transport Underground: St Paul's, Central line. Bus: lines 4, 11, 15, 23, 25, 26, 100 and 242. Big Ben Known as Big Ben, the famous clock of the Houses of Parliament has become one of the most famous images of London, as well as one of the main symbols of the city. The tower, built in 1858 next to the new Palace of Westminster, is a peculiar 106-metre-high Gothic-style building that houses four enormous clocks on its faces. Although when we talk about Big Ben we generally refer to the Clock Tower of the London Parliament building, this name is not entirely accurate, as Big Ben is actually a huge 14-ton bell that is located inside the tower. A clock with English punctuality The clock on the Big Ben Tower, made up of a 7-metre diameter clock on each face, was put into operation in May 1859. Today it has become a symbol of the nation and its chimes are broadcast daily on the BBC radio network. It is one of the most reliable clocks in existence, as it is able to withstand inclement weather such as snow or wind, and even withstood German bombings during the Second World War, maintaining its punctuality intact. Tower Bridge Tower Bridge is one of the most prominent symbols of London. This striking drawbridge, built in the Victorian style, is located next to the Tower of London. As London expanded, it became necessary to build several bridges to link the two banks of the Thames. The first bridge to be built was London Bridge, followed by many others to the west of it to avoid obstructing the port area. During the 19th century, there was a great deal of growth on the east side of London Bridge and a new bridge had to be built. In order not to affect the growing river traffic, the decision was made to create a drawbridge powered by steam engines, which was completed in 1894, after 8 years of construction. Visiting Tower Bridge A visit to the Tower Bridge exhibition shows how the bridge's lifting system worked from its construction until 1976, using a steam engine, and its subsequent replacement by an electric system. The rest of the exhibition focuses on the importance of Tower Bridge in the history of the city. Useful information - Opening hours: April to September: 10:00 to 18:00. October to March: 9:30 to 17:30. - Admission: Adults: £8. Children 5-15: £3.40. Students and over-60s: £5.60. Under-5s: free. - Transport Tube: Tower Hill, Circle, District and DLR lines. Bus: lines 8, 9, 11, 15, 15B, 22B, 25, 133 and 501. London Eye Since its opening in 2000, the astonishing 135-metre-high wheel known as The London Eye has become one of the most iconic icons of the city and the whole of Great Britain. Also known as the Millennium Wheel, the wheel is a feat of design and engineering that was built over seven years by hundreds of workers from five different countries. The impressive 10-tonne structure is made up of 32 glass cabins, each with a capacity for 25 people. It rotates constantly at a slow speed to allow people to get on without stopping. The ride over the heights of the city lasts approximately 30 minutes. London from above The London Eye offers stunning panoramic views of both the city and the countryside. On clear days, visibility can be achieved up to 40 kilometres around, although if the sun is too bright, some parts of the city cannot be seen. The ticket includes access to the "4D Experience", a short 3D film about the city. Useful information - Visiting hours: From October to March: 10:00 to 20:30. From April to June: 10:00 to 21:00 (Fridays and Saturdays until 21:30). July and August: 10:00 to 21:30. From September to December: 10:00 to 20:30. - Admission: Adults: £19. Children 4-15 years: £12.30. Under 4s: free. - Transport Tube: Westminster (Circle, Centre and Jubilee lines) and Waterloo (Bakerloo, Jubilee, Northern and Waterloo & City lines). Bus: lines 211, 77 and 381. Kensington Palace Located in Kensington Gardens, Kensington Palace has been the residence of the British monarchy for over 300 years. Designed by Christopher Wren, it is a huge red brick country house. Over the years, Kensington Palace has been home to generations of the royal family, from William III to the late Lady Diana and Queen Victoria. Useful information - Visiting hours: March to October: 10am to 6pm. November to February: 10am to 5pm. - Admission: Adults: £15. Students: £12.40. - Transport Underground: High Street Kensington, District and Circle lines; Queensway, Central line. Bus: lines 9, 10, 49, 52, 70, 94, 148, 390 and 452. Piccadilly Circus Piccadilly Circus is the place chosen by many Londoners and tourists as a meeting point thanks to its privileged location and the wide range of leisure activities available in the area, from a large number of shops, cinemas and theatres, to restaurants for all tastes. The square is known for its illuminated signs and the Eros fountain located in the centre, which has become one of the icons of London. Full of people at any time of day, we recommend visiting it especially at night, when the neon lights make the area shine, making it an even more special place. Trafalgar Square Trafalgar Square is one of the most important and lively squares in central London. It was created in 1830 to commemorate the victory of the British fleet over the Spanish and French navies at the Battle of Trafalgar. In the centre of the square stands the majestic Nelson's Column, built in 1843 in honour of Admiral Nelson, who died whilst commanding the British fleet at the Battle of Trafalgar. The granite column, almost 50 metres high, is crowned by a statue of Admiral Nelson and surrounded by four large lions, made from the cast bronze of the cannons of the French fleet. In the northern part of the square stands the majestic National Gallery, and in front of it are two magnificent fountains that are illuminated at nightfall. In the square you can see several statues of famous people, among which stands out the one of George Washington, a gift from the state of Virginia, which is situated on soil imported from the United States, since Washington swore never to set foot on British soil again. Covent Garden Covent Garden is one of the most charming districts in all of London. In this lively area, street artists strive to maintain a cheerful atmosphere while visitors browse the shops and markets, or enjoy a coffee on one of the pleasant terraces. The history of the current Covent Garden square began in the 17th century, when the land passed from the hands of the monks of Westminster to the property of the Earls of Bedford. In 1631 work began to convert the cultivated area into a public square. In 1660 a large flower, fruit and vegetable market was created, which made the district famous, and, at the beginning of the 19th century, the appearance of the square was modified by the construction of three covered pavilions that housed the market. In 1974, the market building was renovated and transformed into a shopping centre that has remained to this day, attracting both tourists and Londoners with its bohemian and welcoming atmosphere. Today, Covent Garden remains a very special neighbourhood, lively at any time of day. In the area you can enjoy the fashion shops located on Floral Street, or the small stalls of the master craftsmen in the covered shopping area. The Shard The Shard is the tallest skyscraper in the European Union at 310 metres high. Since its inauguration in July 2012, the silhouette of The Shard has forever defined the skyline of London. It was originally known as London Bridge Tower. What does it hide? On its 87 floors, 72 of which are usable, The Shard has offices, restaurants, the luxurious Shangri-La hotel, apartments, a viewing platform and the spire. As a curious and chilling fact, the private apartments in The Shard, of which there are only 10, one per floor, went on sale for prices between 30 and 50 million pounds sterling. Observation deck The observation deck of the building, known as "The View", has become, along with the London Eye, the best place to observe London from above. It is divided into three floors, two of which are closed and one terrace is open, and the view offered is 360º, making it possible to see up to 65 kilometres in a radius. The height of the observation deck is almost twice that of the London Eye. Useful information - Visiting hours: Thursday to Saturday: from 10:00 to 22:00 hours (access until 20:30). Sunday to Wednesday: from 10:00 to 19:00 hours (access until 17:30). - Entrance: Adults: £29.95. Children 4-15 years: £23.95. Children under 4 years: free. - Transport Tube: London Bridge, Northern and Jubilee lines. Bus: lines 43, 48, 141, 149 and 521. Shakespeare's Globe Theatre Shakespeare's Globe Theatre is a faithful reproduction of the theatre built in 1599, where Shakespeare performed his most famous plays. Located less than 200 metres from the original site, the theatre was built from different sources of information that managed to create a building practically identical to the original. The original theatre was built in 1599 for William Shakespeare's theatre company. Many of his masterpieces were created to be performed at the Globe, making it one of the most successful theatres in London. In 1613 one of the performances was thrown into chaos when the thatched roof caught fire and the fire ended up destroying the theatre. A second theatre was built on the same site and served as the headquarters of Shakespeare's company until 1642, when all theatres in the city were closed by the English Puritan Administration. As it was no longer in use, the theatre was demolished in 1644. In 1949, the actor, director and producer Sam Wanamaker travelled to London and, after seeing with disappointment that only a commemorative plaque remained in honour of Shakespeare, in 1970 he began to raise funds for the reconstruction of the theatre. Today the Shakespeare Globe Theatre offers plays from May to October, as its predecessor did in Shakespeare's time. In addition to the plays, the theatre can be visited on guided tours, which show the seating, divided into zones with different prices depending on the social class that frequented them. During the tours, you can also see the stage and its secret trapdoors that made Shakespeare's characters emerge from both heaven and hell. Useful information - Visiting hours: Daily from 10:00 to 17:30 (hours vary). - Entrance: (guided tours in English only): Adults: £13.50. Students: £11. Children aged 5 to 15: £8. Children under 5: free. - Transport Underground: Mansion House, District and Circle lines; London Bridge, Northern and Jubelee lines; Southwark, Jubelee line; St Paul's, Central line. Bus: lines 11, 15, 17, 23, 26, 45, 63, 76, 100, 344 and 381. London City Hall Located on the south bank of the Thames, between London Bridge and Tower Bridge, London City Hall is a peculiar building that serves as the chamber of the Assembly and offices for the main authorities of the city. Opened in 2002, the peculiar City Hall building has a characteristic oval shape that gives it a futuristic appearance. The designs were inspired by architect Norman Foster, who has created other curious designs such as the Berlin Parliament building. With a height of 45 metres and 10 floors, the extravagant glass building is designed to save energy through different systems such as recycling heat from computers or replacing the air conditioning units with small windows located in each of the offices. Useful information - Visiting hours: Monday to Thursday: 8:30 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. and Fridays: 8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. - Entrance: Free. - Transport: Underground: London Bridge, Northern and Jubilee lines. Museums British Museum The British Museum in London is, in addition to being one of the oldest museums in the world, one of the largest and most famous collections of antiquities in existence. Today, the British Museum receives more than 5 million visitors a year, making it the third most visited museum in the world, after the Louvre in Paris and the Metropolitan Museum in New York. The museum was founded in 1753 and finally opened to the public on 15 January 1759. The origins of the British Museum go back to the physicist and collector Hans Sloane, who wanted his collection of more than 80,000 items to survive his death. The collection included more than 40,000 books and antiquities from Greece, Rome, Egypt, the Middle East and America. The British Museum is the most entertaining museum in the city for those who are not too keen on paintings and prefer to learn about culture in other ways. - Exhibitions The more than seven million objects from all continents that the museum holds are arranged according to their place of origin. The museum is so large that a leisurely visit would require more than a day, but to see the most important things, a morning may be enough. One of the parts worth highlighting is the Great Court in the centre of the museum, a huge glass-covered space that houses the British Library's reading room. Useful information - Location: Great Russell Street. - Visiting hours: Daily from 10:00 to 17:30. Fridays until 20:30. - Admission: Free. - Transport: Underground: Holborn, Central and Picadilly lines; Tottenham Court Road, Northern and Central lines. Buses: lines 1, 7, 8, 10, 14, 19, 24, 25, 29, 38, 55, 73, 98, 134, 242 and 390. National Gallery Located north of Trafalgar Square, the National Gallery is London's most important art museum and one of the best known in the world. The gallery's beginnings date back to 1824, when the British state bought 38 paintings from the private collection of banker John Julius Angerstein for £57,000. From that moment on, the gallery began a rapid and important development and currently has more than 2,300 paintings, two thirds of which have been private donations. The National Gallery in London displays paintings of European origin from 1250 to 1900. The permanent collection is made up of more than 2,300 paintings, including works by Rembrandt, Titian, Velázquez, Van Gogh and Michelangelo. Although smaller than other renowned galleries such as the Louvre, it is a museum of remarkable quality and artistic variety that covers practically the entire history of painting in the Western world, allowing us to observe the evolution of pictorial styles from the Renaissance to Post-Impressionism. Useful information - Location: Trafalgar Square. - Visiting hours: Every day: from 10:00 to 18:00 hours. (Fridays until 21:00 hours). - Admission: Free. - Transport: Underground: Charing Cross, Northern and Bakerloo lines; Leicester Square, Northern and Picadilly lines. Buses: 3, 6, 9, 11, 12, 13, 15, 23, 24, 29, 53, 77A, 88, 91, 139, 159, 176 and 453. Imperial War Museum The Imperial War Museum aims to promote the analysis and understanding of war throughout history, with a particular emphasis on the effects of war on civilians. The Imperial War Museum opened to the public in 1920 in the Crystal Palace on Sydenham Hill. In 1936 it moved to its present location, the former Bethlem Mental Hospital. Following the outbreak of World War II, the museum's collections grew rapidly and it expanded to other London locations, including the HMS Belfast and the Churchill Museum, and to a number of other locations outside the city. The museum's extensive collections include official documents, video and photographic materials, military vehicles, aircraft and military weapons. Although the museum has a global view of the war world, it pays particular attention to the wars in which the United Kingdom has taken part. The London War Museum is one of the best in the world. The exhibits not only offer the chance to see up close the casing of an atomic bomb, a human torpedo, tanks or military aircraft, but also show the personal experiences of the military personnel who took part in the wars and those of the citizens who suffered the consequences. Useful information - Location: Lambeth Road. - Visiting hours: Daily: 10:00 - 18:00. - Admission: Free. - Transport: Underground: Lambeth North, Bakerloo line; Waterloo, Bakerloo, Northern and Jubilee lines; Southwark, Jubilee line; Elephant & Castle, Bakerloo and Northern lines. Buses: lines 1, 3, 12, 45, 53, 59, 63, 68, 100, 159, 168, 171, 172, 176,188, 344, 360, 453 and C10. Parks and gardens Hyde Park Covering over 140 hectares, Hyde Park is the largest park in central London. It is the lung of the city and serves as a recreational area for Londoners and tourists. The park's land formerly belonged to Westminster Abbey until 1536, when the land was expropriated by Henry VIII and it was opened as a public park in the 17th century. Hyde Park is considered the oldest park in the city and has been the scene of duels, demonstrations and concerts since its creation. For years there has been a tradition of celebrating anniversaries related to the Royal Family by firing 41 cannon shots at midday. - Speakers Corner In the north-east corner of Hyde Park is Speakers Corner, a curious place where speakers and eccentric characters meet on Sunday mornings to make speeches on different topics, both religious and political. It is a real spectacle where people come to listen, applaud or boo. St James's Park St James's Park is the oldest of the royal parks in the city, a charming green lung located in the heart of London, next to Buckingham Palace. In 1532, Henry VIII bought the 23-hectare land that makes up the park, which at that time was a marshland. After draining the marsh, Henry VIII used the land as one of his many private hunting reserves. At the end of the 17th century, the area was transformed into a French-style garden and Charles II later commissioned the construction of the current park. One of the main attractions of St James's Park is its proximity to Buckingham Palace, a reason why thousands of visitors come to the vicinity of the park to enjoy the spectacle of the Changing of the Guard. The park has an artificial lake full of birds that is surrounded by a blanket of flowers, shrubs and cypresses, capable of making visitors forget for a moment that they are in the centre of London, transporting them to a green oasis of tranquillity. Kensington Gardens The royal gardens of Kensington Palace, created from land stolen from Hyde Park, were opened to the public in 1841. In 1689 William III bought a small part of land from Hyde Park, together with an old mansion known as Nottingham House to convert it into the gardens and Kensington Palace. Thus, the royal gardens grew and gained ground from Hyde Park; Today, visitors can enjoy this large green space and the attractions found within it, such as Kensington Palace, the Memorial to Princess Diana of Wales, the bronze statue dedicated to Peter Pan or the beautiful Orangery, an old greenhouse where you can enjoy a delicious English tea. Regent's Park Originally, the land was part of the many properties of the Dukes of Portland until, at the beginning of the 19th century, it was transformed into the private hunting ground of King Henry VIII. In 1811, work began on redesigning the area to turn it into the well-kept park it is today and in 1838 it opened its doors to the public. Regent's Park is a green oasis that forms the largest area in the city dedicated to outdoor sports, from field hockey to tennis, athletics, football, rugby, and it is even possible to practice rowing on the 9-hectare artificial lake. Despite being a great centre for sport, Regent's Park has much more to offer its visitors; more than 400 varieties of roses, a beautiful lake that is home to many different breeds of birds, some beautiful neoclassical villas, an open-air theatre, a mosque and London Zoo, created in 1828. Green Park Green Park, located next to Buckingham Palace, between Hyde Park and St James's Park, is one of the Royal Parks of London. Although the three parks are very close, Green Park has a special character that sets it apart from the others. The land on which Green Park is located was a marshy area where lepers from the nearby St Jame's Hospital were buried until, in the 16th century, the land was delimited as a hunting ground by Henry VIII. In 1660, under the orders of Charles II, the land was transformed into a park that would soon become the chosen place for duels and as a refuge for thieves. Today, Green Park is a quiet and safe park where you can spend a pleasant time before attending the Changing of the Guard ceremony, which takes place in front of the nearby Buckingham Palace. Gastronomy Although London is one of the most expensive cities in the world, the prices of restaurants are quite reasonable, but if you do not have enough time or money, in London you can find a large number of fast food establishments; burger joints, kebab shops and pizzerias are easy to find anywhere in the city. Typical dishes Although in London it is possible to find food from all nationalities and origins, there are also some typical British dishes, among which we could highlight the following: - Fish and chips: Fish - normally hake - battered and fried accompanied by chips. It is the most typical dish in London. - Roast beef: Grilled beef. - Steak and kidney pie: Pie filled with beef and kidneys. - Yorkshire pudding: Baked dough wafer in the shape of a bowl. - Baked Beans: Toast with beans. - Apple Pie: Hot apple pie. English tea The traditional tea ceremony that began in the 17th century continues to be part of the stereotypes and life of English citizens. The infusion that in the past became part of the daily life of the English upper class is today one of the most widespread drinks in the capital. Although due to the rush of today's life the custom of taking tea as an act of tranquility and socialization is being lost, it is something that the English continue to do whenever they have time or to celebrate special occasions. Some of the best places to enjoy the full tea ceremony are the luxury hotels in the city. Another ideal place to have the "Afternoon Tea" is the Orangerie of Buckingham Palace; although the price may seem a bit excessive, the ceremony not only includes different types of tea, but also cakes and sandwiches. Recommended areas Although you will find restaurants and fast food stands everywhere in London, some of the most recommended areas are the charming Covent Garden neighbourhood, the area around Leicester Square and the Soho area. Asian food lovers can find their own paradise in Chinatown, where a multitude of restaurants offer very complete menus from £8. Being one of the most cosmopolitan cities in the world, you can find any type of food at any price, from small cheap restaurants to gastronomic temples with exorbitant prices. Shopping London is one of the favourite cities for shopping lovers, and it is possible to find very good offers on items such as clothing or electronics. In London you can find both large shopping centres and flea markets and authentic luxury stores. What to buy Some of the favourite items for tourists are souvenirs from London: T-shirts, bags, objects shaped like telephone booths, double-decker buses or the typical miniature London taxis. Any souvenir is good to give as a gift. Those who are planning to renew their wardrobe have a wide range of possibilities that includes clothes and accessories for all tastes, from the most exclusive classic fashion to the most extravagant and peculiar models. One of the star products of shopping in London is the well-known English tea, of which you can find an infinite variety in the endless shops throughout the city, you can always opt for the store chosen by the Queen of England to buy her teas. Fortnum & Mason, one of the largest tea shops in the city, dates back to 1707 and offers more than 60 different varieties of tea. It is located in Piccadilly. Shopping areas in London - Oxford Street: Probably the most important shopping street in London, on Oxford Street you can find everything from small clothing stores to large department stores. - Covent Garden: Both inside the covered market and in the surrounding streets you will find souvenir shops, clothing, accessories. It is one of the liveliest areas of the city. - Knightsbridge: This is a shopping district where some of the most famous department stores in the world are located: Harrods and Harvey Nichols. - Bond Street: The ideal place for those looking for luxury stores. Channel, Armani and Versace are some of the designers who are based on Bond Street. - Regent Street: Full of fashion stores, Regent Street is one of the main shopping streets in London. Also worth mentioning is the Hamleys toy store, a paradise for children and adults that is only comparable to the FAO Schwartz toy store in New York. Harrods Harrods is the most famous shopping centre in London. It is located on Brompton Road, in the Knightsbridge district, very close to Hyde Park. The origins of Harrods date back to 1834, when Charles Henry Harrod opened a small food store. In 1849 the store moved to its current location where, over time, it expanded by buying the surrounding shops and houses. Harrods is currently owned by Egyptian Mohamed Al Fayed. As a tourist attraction, Harrods offers luxurious décor with statues, fountains and rooms decorated with different motifs. Special mention should be made of the Egyptian room and the memorials to Diana, Princess of Wales. Harrods is one of the most luxurious shopping centres in the world and, therefore, its prices are generally quite high. Many tourists choose to buy boxes of tea, stuffed animals, chocolates or other inexpensive items as gifts or souvenirs. Useful information - Location: 87-135 Brompton Road, Knightsbridge, Knightsbridge. - Visiting hours: Monday to Saturday: 10:00 to 20:00 and Sundays: 11:30 to 18:00. - Transport: Underground: Knightsbridge, Piccadilly line (dark blue). Buses: lines 9, 10, 14, 19, 22, 52, 74, 137, 414 and C1. Portobello Market Portobello Market is one of the most famous markets in London. At Portobello you can find a wide variety of items, including antiques; coins, watches, furniture, stamps and jewellery are some of the most popular items. Portobello Market takes its name from the street on which it is located, Portobello Road. This street is about three kilometres long and connects Nothing Hill with Ladbroke Grove. In addition to the colourful stalls on the main street, you can also find shops and stalls on perpendicular streets such as Westbourne Grove. The best day to visit the market is on Saturday morning, when street stalls invade the streets and the market reaches its peak. The rest of the days only the shops that carry some products out onto the street are open. Useful information - Transport: Underground: Notting Hill Gate, Circle, Central and District lines; Ladbroke Grove, Hammersmith & City line. Buses: lines 7, 12, 23, 27, 28, 31, 70, 94 and 328. Nightlife London is a world-famous city for its tireless nightlife. The nights in London are endless and are capable of satisfying the most demanding tastes. Party areas in London Due to its great appeal and the quality of its venues, the five most notable party areas are: - Mayfair: Located in the centre of the city, Mayfair is one of the most expensive and prestigious neighbourhoods in London. It stands out for the elegance of its hotels, shops, restaurants, bars and pubs, with Bond Street being especially famous. - Soho: Soho is a must-see for tourists visiting the city. Located in the city centre, it is known for its restaurants, live music venues and numerous gay-oriented bars. - East London: East London is a vibrant and culturally interesting neighbourhood, being home to many major events held in London. Located in the east of the city, it is popular for its large number of exclusive restaurants, bars, clubs. - Camden: Located in the north of London, Camden is a neighbourhood known for its market and its lively and relaxed nightlife. You will find the best restaurants and places to listen to live music. - South Kensington: Kensington is one of the wealthiest areas of London. It is also known for its wide variety of exclusive restaurants and clubs, making it ideal for going out for a few drinks and enjoying London's nightlife. Nightclubs in London - Cirque Le Soir: With a show that ranges from the extravagant to the surprising, Cirque Le Soir fuses the world of the circus with the world of the night. Every night you will find shows by magicians, acrobats, clowns and contortionists in a charming and electric atmosphere. It is a club for an adult and select audience. - Funky Buddha: Located in the heart of Mayfair, Funky Buddha is one of the most exclusive clubs in London. Aimed at a select audience, this club attracts celebrities from the world of fashion and entertainment. It opens on Tuesdays and from Thursday to Sunday. - Kensington Roof Gardens: The Roof Gardens is one of the most popular clubs in the city. Located on the roof of the former Derry and Toms building on Kensington High Street, the club has a garden that covers 6,000m² of surface area. This glamorous club is strictly for over 21s and opens its doors on Fridays and Saturdays. - Boujis: Boujis is one of the most popular clubs in the South Kensington area. This club offers an unrivalled experience, which is why it always has the presence of some of the most influential people in the world of entertainment. It is also known for hosting the best national and international DJs. How to get around Public transport in London is quite expensive and is where we will find the biggest difference compared to other European capitals. The best way to get around London quickly, comfortably and cheaply is by underground. The London Underground line was the first to be built in Europe and today it is one of the largest in the world. It has 274 stations, divided into 12 lines. Another good option is taxis, which have become a symbol of London. They are old, black cars, called Black Cabs, with capacity for five people. Another of the most recognized means of transport are the red double-decker buses, which you have to take at least once, as this way you will be able to appreciate the city in a different and classic way. Although the size and climate of London do not invite it, many Londoners choose to travel around the city by bicycle. Barclays Cycle Hire is the name of the public cycle hire scheme designed for short journeys around central London. The 'network' consists of 400 stations and over 6,000 bikes. As it is a self-service system, the bikes can be used 24 hours a day, all year round. Weather It is a common image of London as a grey, cloudy city where it always rains, and this image is not far from reality. The weather in London varies constantly throughout the day and, although there are usually no extreme temperatures, it is common to see clouds, rain, cold and even sun and heat in the same day. Rain is frequent throughout the year, so it is always important to carry an umbrella. The coldest months are between December and March, when average temperatures are between 0º and 8º. While the warmest months of the year are July and August, during which the average temperature reaches 17º. Recommendations - Although London is one of the most expensive cities in the world, it is worth remembering that most of its museums are free and that, by doing things right, it is possible to save a lot of money on the rest of the attractions. - To save on tourist visits you can buy tourist cards, such as the London Pass, which in addition to free entry to more than 60 attractions allows you to save time by skipping the long queues and offers discounts in some shops: Days Over 15s From 5 to 15 years 1 £49 £33 2 £68 £49 3 £81 £56 6 £108 £76